-------------------data 1---------------------
context:
Other green spaces in the city include the Botanic Garden and the University Library garden. They have extensive botanical collection of rare domestic and foreign plants, while a palm house in the New Orangery displays plants of subtropics from all over the world. Besides, within the city borders, there are also: Pole Mokotowskie (a big park in the northern Mokotów, where was the first horse racetrack and then the airport), Park Ujazdowski (close to the Sejm and John Lennon street), Park of Culture and Rest in Powsin, by the southern city border, Park Skaryszewski by the right Vistula bank, in Praga. The oldest park in Praga, the Praga Park, was established in 1865–1871 and designed by Jan Dobrowolski. In 1927 a zoological garden (Ogród Zoologiczny) was established on the park grounds, and in 1952 a bear run, still open today.

Q1:    What is the name of the botanical garden in Praga?
A1:    Ogród Zoologiczny

Q2:    What is the name of the palm house in New Orangery?
A2:    plants of subtropics

Q3:    What is the name of the park in the northern city borders?
A3:    Pole Mokotowskie

Q4:    Who designed the park in Praga?
A4:    Jan Dobrowolski

Q5:    What year was a bear run open in the zoological garden?
A5:    1952

-------------------data 2---------------------
context:
The flora of the city may be considered very rich in species. The species richness is mainly due to the location of Warsaw within the border region of several big floral regions comprising substantial proportions of close-to-wilderness areas (natural forests, wetlands along the Vistula) as well as arable land, meadows and forests. Bielany Forest, located within the borders of Warsaw, is the remaining part of the Masovian Primeval Forest. Bielany Forest nature reserve is connected with Kampinos Forest. It is home to rich fauna and flora. Within the forest there are three cycling and walking trails. Other big forest area is Kabaty Forest by the southern city border. Warsaw has also two botanic gardens: by the Łazienki park (a didactic-research unit of the University of Warsaw) as well as by the Park of Culture and Rest in Powsin (a unit of the Polish Academy of Science).

Q1:    What city may be considered rich in species?
A1:    The flora of the city

Q2:    What is the main reason for the richness of Warsaw?
A2:    the location of Warsaw within the border region of several big floral regions

Q3:    What is the rest of the Masovian Primeval Forest?
A3:    Bielany Forest

Q4:    What is the nature reserve connected with?
A4:    Kampinos Forest

Q5:    What is the name of the forest in Warsaw?
A5:    Kabaty Forest

Q6:    How many trails are located within the forest?
A6:    three

Q7:    Where is the Kabaty Forest located?
A7:    by the southern city border

Q8:    What is the name of the institute of research at Warsaw?
A8:    azienki park

-------------------data 3---------------------
context:
In 1939, c. 1,300,000 people lived in Warsaw, but in 1945 – only 420,000. During the first years after the war, the population growth was c. 6%, so shortly the city started to suffer from the lack of flats and of areas for new houses. The first remedial measure was the Warsaw area enlargement (1951) – but the city authorities were still forced to introduce residency registration limitations: only the spouses and children of the permanent residents as well as some persons of public importance (like renowned specialists) were allowed to get the registration, hence halving the population growth in the following years. It also bolstered some kind of conviction among Poles that Varsovians thought of themselves as better only because they lived in the capital. Unfortunately this belief still lives on in Poland (although not as much as it used to be) – even though since 1990 there are no limitations to residency registration anymore.

Q1:    How many people lived in Warsaw in 1939?
A1:    1,300,000

Q2:    How many people lived in Warsaw in 1945?
A2:    420,000

Q3:    What was the population growth in Warsaw in 1945?
A3:    420,000

Q4:    What was the first remedial measure to ease the growth of Warsaw?
A4:    Warsaw area enlargement

Q5:    What year did the Warsaw area enlargement begin?
A5:    1951

Q6:    What did Varsovians view themselves as better than they did in Poland?
A6:    because they lived in the capital

Q7:    What country has no restrictions on residency?
A7:    Poland

-------------------data 4---------------------
context:
Throughout its existence, Warsaw has been a multi-cultural city. According to the 1901 census, out of 711,988 inhabitants 56.2% were Catholics, 35.7% Jews, 5% Greek orthodox Christians and 2.8% Protestants. Eight years later, in 1909, there were 281,754 Jews (36.9%), 18,189 Protestants (2.4%) and 2,818 Mariavites (0.4%). This led to construction of hundreds of places of religious worship in all parts of the town. Most of them were destroyed in the aftermath of the Warsaw Uprising of 1944. After the war, the new communist authorities of Poland discouraged church construction and only a small number were rebuilt.

Q1:    What city has been multicultural throughout its existence?
A1:    Warsaw

Q2:    What percentage of the population were Protestant?
A2:    2.8%

Q3:    How many Protestants were there in 1909?
A3:    2.8%

Q4:    How many places of worship were built in Warsaw?
A4:    hundreds

Q5:    What event caused many of the churches to be destroyed?
A5:    the Warsaw Uprising of 1944

Q6:    What did the new communist authorities of Poland discourage?
A6:    church construction

-------------------data 5---------------------
context:
The basic unit of territorial division in Poland is a commune (gmina). A city is also a commune – but with the city charter. Both cities and communes are governed by a mayor – but in the communes the mayor is vogt (wójt in Polish), however in the cities – burmistrz. Some bigger cities obtain the entitlements, i.e. tasks and privileges, which are possessed by the units of the second level of the territorial division – counties or powiats. An example of such entitlement is a car registration: a gmina cannot register cars, this is a powiat's task (i.e. a registration number depends on what powiat a car had been registered, not gmina). In this case we say about city county or powiat grodzki. Such cities are for example Lublin, Kraków, Gdańsk, Poznań. In Warsaw, its districts additionally have some of powiat's entitlements – like already mentioned car registration. For example, the district Wola has its own evidence and the district Ursynów – its own (and the cars from Wola have another type of registration number than these from Ursynów). But for instance the districts in Kraków do not have entitlements of powiat, so the registration numbers in Kraków are of the same type for all districts.

Q1:    What is the basic unit of territorial division in Poland?
A1:    a commune (gmina)

Q2:    What is a city's charter?
A2:    a commune

Q3:    What is the mayor of Poland's city?
A3:    vogt

Q4:    What are the entitlements possessed by larger cities?
A4:    tasks and privileges

Q5:    What is the name of the task that can be done if a car has been registered
A5:    a car registration number

Q6:    What is the name of the city that has a primary unit of territorial division in Poland?
A6:    a commune (gmina)

Q7:    What are the cities that have some of powiat's entitlements?
A7:    Lublin, Kraków, Gdask, Pozna

Q8:    What is one example of a powiat entitlement in Warsaw?
A8:    a car registration

Q9:    What is the name of the city that has its own evidence and a car registration number?
A9:    Wola

Q10:    What are powiat's registration numbers for Kraków?
A10:    a car had been registered, not gmina

-------------------data 6---------------------
context:
Legislative power in Warsaw is vested in a unicameral Warsaw City Council (Rada Miasta), which comprises 60 members. Council members are elected directly every four years. Like most legislative bodies, the City Council divides itself into committees which have the oversight of various functions of the city government. Bills passed by a simple majority are sent to the mayor (the President of Warsaw), who may sign them into law. If the mayor vetoes a bill, the Council has 30 days to override the veto by a two-thirds majority vote.

Q1:    How many members are on the Warsaw City Council?
A1:    60

Q2:    How many years are the members of the Warsaw City Council elected?
A2:    four

Q3:    What is the term for a common position in Warsaw City Council?
A3:    President of Warsaw

Q4:    Who is the mayor of Warsaw?
A4:    the President of Warsaw

Q5:    How long is the veto period?
A5:    30 days

-------------------data 7---------------------
context:
The mayor of Warsaw is called President. Generally, in Poland, the mayors of bigger cities are called presidents – i.e. such cities, which have over 100,000 people or these, where already was president before 1990. The first Warsaw President was Jan Andrzej Menich (1695–1696). Between 1975 and 1990 the Warsaw Presidents was simultaneously the Warsaw Voivode. Since 1990 the President of Warsaw had been elected by the City council. In the years of 1994–1999 the mayor of the district Centrum automatically was designated as the President of Warsaw: the mayor of Centrum was elected by the district council of Centrum and the council was elected only by the Centrum residents. Since 2002 the President of Warsaw is elected by all of the citizens of Warsaw.

Q1:    What is the term for the mayor of Poland?
A1:    President

Q2:    What are the mayors of bigger cities called in Poland?
A2:    presidents

Q3:    Who was the first Warsaw president?
A3:    Jan Andrzej Menich

Q4:    What was the Warsaw Voivode?
A4:    simultaneously

Q5:    Who was the mayor of Poland?
A5:    Jan Andrzej Menich

Q6:    Who was the mayor of Centrum?
A6:    the district council

Q7:    When was the President of Warsaw elected?
A7:    2002

-------------------data 8---------------------
context:
Warsaw, especially its city centre (Śródmieście), is home not only to many national institutions and government agencies, but also to many domestic and international companies. In 2006, 304,016 companies were registered in the city. Warsaw's ever-growing business community has been noticed globally, regionally, and nationally. MasterCard Emerging Market Index has noted Warsaw's economic strength and commercial center. Moreover, Warsaw was ranked as the 7th greatest emerging market. Foreign investors' financial participation in the city's development was estimated in 2002 at over 650 million euro. Warsaw produces 12% of Poland's national income, which in 2008 was 305.1% of the Polish average, per capita (or 160% of the European Union average). The GDP per capita in Warsaw amounted to PLN 94 000 in 2008 (c. EUR 23 800, USD 33 000). Total nominal GDP of the city in 2010 amounted to 191.766 billion PLN, 111696 PLN per capita, which was 301,1 % of Polish average. Warsaw leads the region of East-Central Europe in foreign investment and in 2006, GDP growth met expectations with a level of 6.1%. It also has one of the fastest growing economies, with GDP growth at 6.5 percent in 2007 and 6.1 percent in the first quarter of 2008.

Q1:    What is the name of Warsaw's city centre?
A1:    ródmiecie

Q2:    How many companies were registered in Warsaw in 2006?
A2:    304,016

Q3:    What is the name of the growing business community in Warsaw?
A3:    Warsaw

Q4:    What is the name of the MasterCard Emerging Market Index?
A4:    Warsaw's economic strength and commercial center

Q5:    What was Warsaw ranked as the 7th most emerging market?
A5:    Warsaw

Q6:    How much money did foreign investors contribute to the development of Warsaw?
A6:    650 million euro

Q7:    What percentage of Poland's national income did Warsaw produce in 2008?
A7:    12%

Q8:    What was the GDP per capita of Warsaw?
A8:    PLN 94 000

Q9:    How much was the total nominal GDP per capita in Warsaw?
A9:    191.766 billion PLN, 111696 PLN per capita

Q10:    What was the total nominal GDP of Warsaw in 2010?
A10:    191.766 billion PLN, 111696 PLN per capita

Q11:    What percentage of the GDP growth did Warsaw lead in 2006?
A11:    6.1%

Q12:    What percentage of Poland's GDP growth did Warsaw have in the first quarter of 2008?
A12:    6.1 percent

-------------------data 9---------------------
context:
Warsaw's first stock exchange was established in 1817 and continued trading until World War II. It was re-established in April 1991, following the end of the post-war communist control of the country and the reintroduction of a free-market economy. Today, the Warsaw Stock Exchange (WSE) is, according to many indicators, the largest market in the region, with 374 companies listed and total capitalization of 162 584 mln EUR as of 31 August 2009. From 1991 until 2000, the stock exchange was, ironically, located in the building previously used as the headquarters of the Polish United Workers' Party (PZPR).

Q1:    When was the first Warsaw stock exchange established?
A1:    1817

Q2:    When was the Warsaw Stock Exchange re-established?
A2:    April 1991

Q3:    How many companies listed in Warsaw Stock Exchange?
A3:    374

Q4:    What was the original headquarters of the Polish United Workers' Party?
A4:    PZPR

-------------------data 10---------------------
context:
The FSO Car Factory was established in 1951. A number of vehicles have been assembled there over the decades, including the Warszawa, Syrena, Fiat 125p (under license from Fiat, later renamed FSO 125p when the license expired) and the Polonez. The last two models listed were also sent abroad and assembled in a number of other countries, including Egypt and Colombia. In 1995 the factory was purchased by the South Korean car manufacturer Daewoo, which assembled the Tico, Espero, Nubia, Tacuma, Leganza, Lanos and Matiz there for the European market. In 2005 the factory was sold to AvtoZAZ, a Ukrainian car manufacturer which assembled there the Chevrolet Aveo. The license for the production of the Aveo expired in February 2011 and has since not been renewed. Currently the company is defunct.

Q1:    When was the factory established?
A1:    1951

Q2:    What was the original name of the car factory?
A2:    The FSO Car Factory

Q3:    Where were the last two models assembled?
A3:    Egypt and Colombia

Q4:    What South Korean car manufacturer bought the factory in 1995?
A4:    Daewoo

Q5:    What company was the first South Korean car manufacturer to sell the Aveo?
A5:    Daewoo

Q6:    When did the license for the production of the Aveo expire?
A6:    February 2011

Q7:    What is the name of the car manufacturing company that has not been renewed?
A7:    AvtoZAZ

-------------------data 11---------------------
context:
Warsaw (Polish: Warszawa [varˈʂava] ( listen); see also other names) is the capital and largest city of Poland. It stands on the Vistula River in east-central Poland, roughly 260 kilometres (160 mi) from the Baltic Sea and 300 kilometres (190 mi) from the Carpathian Mountains. Its population is estimated at 1.740 million residents within a greater metropolitan area of 2.666 million residents, which makes Warsaw the 9th most-populous capital city in the European Union. The city limits cover 516.9 square kilometres (199.6 sq mi), while the metropolitan area covers 6,100.43 square kilometres (2,355.39 sq mi).

Q1:    What is the name of Warsaw?
A1:    Warszawa

Q2:    What is the population of Warsaw?
A2:    1.740 million

Q3:    How many residents live in Warsaw?
A3:    2.666 million

Q4:    How many square kilometres does Warsaw city limits?
A4:    516.9

-------------------data 12---------------------
context:
The Normans (Norman: Nourmands; French: Normands; Latin: Normanni) were the people who in the 10th and 11th centuries gave their name to Normandy, a region in France. They were descended from Norse ("Norman" comes from "Norseman") raiders and pirates from Denmark, Iceland and Norway who, under their leader Rollo, agreed to swear fealty to King Charles III of West Francia. Through generations of assimilation and mixing with the native Frankish and Roman-Gaulish populations, their descendants would gradually merge with the Carolingian-based cultures of West Francia. The distinct cultural and ethnic identity of the Normans emerged initially in the first half of the 10th century, and it continued to evolve over the succeeding centuries.

Q1:    What was the French name of the region in which the Normans gave their name to?
A1:    Normandy

Q2:    Who was the ruler of the Normans?
A2:    Charles III

Q3:    What was the process in which the descendants of the Normans merged with the Carolingi
A3:    through generations of assimilation and mixing with the native Frankish and Roman-Ga

Q4:    When did the Normans emerge?
A4:    first half of the 10th century

-------------------data 13---------------------
context:
The Norman dynasty had a major political, cultural and military impact on medieval Europe and even the Near East. The Normans were famed for their martial spirit and eventually for their Christian piety, becoming exponents of the Catholic orthodoxy into which they assimilated. They adopted the Gallo-Romance language of the Frankish land they settled, their dialect becoming known as Norman, Normaund or Norman French, an important literary language. The Duchy of Normandy, which they formed by treaty with the French crown, was a great fief of medieval France, and under Richard I of Normandy was forged into a cohesive and formidable principality in feudal tenure. The Normans are noted both for their culture, such as their unique Romanesque architecture and musical traditions, and for their significant military accomplishments and innovations. Norman adventurers founded the Kingdom of Sicily under Roger II after conquering southern Italy on the Saracens and Byzantines, and an expedition on behalf of their duke, William the Conqueror, led to the Norman conquest of England at the Battle of Hastings in 1066. Norman cultural and military influence spread from these new European centres to the Crusader states of the Near East, where their prince Bohemond I founded the Principality of Antioch in the Levant, to Scotland and Wales in Great Britain, to Ireland, and to the coasts of north Africa and the Canary Islands.

Q1:    What was the Norman dynasty known for?
A1:    martial spirit and eventually for their Christian piety

Q2:    What was the Normans' piety?
A2:    Christian

Q3:    What was the French word for Normandy's dialect?
A3:    Norman, Normaund

Q4:    What was Norman's principality in feudal tenure?
A4:    The Duchy of Normandy

Q5:    What are the Normans known for their unique Romanesque architecture and musical traditions?
A5:    culture

Q6:    Who founded the Kingdom of Sicily under Roger II?
A6:    Norman adventurers

Q7:    What was the name of the Principality of Antioch?
A7:    Bohemond I

-------------------data 14---------------------
context:
The English name "Normans" comes from the French words Normans/Normanz, plural of Normant, modern French normand, which is itself borrowed from Old Low Franconian Nortmann "Northman" or directly from Old Norse Norðmaðr, Latinized variously as Nortmannus, Normannus, or Nordmannus (recorded in Medieval Latin, 9th century) to mean "Norseman, Viking".

Q1:    What is the Latin word for Normant?
A1:    Nortmannus

-------------------data 15---------------------
context:
In the course of the 10th century, the initially destructive incursions of Norse war bands into the rivers of France evolved into more permanent encampments that included local women and personal property. The Duchy of Normandy, which began in 911 as a fiefdom, was established by the treaty of Saint-Clair-sur-Epte between King Charles III of West Francia and the famed Viking ruler Rollo, and was situated in the former Frankish kingdom of Neustria. The treaty offered Rollo and his men the French lands between the river Epte and the Atlantic coast in exchange for their protection against further Viking incursions. The area corresponded to the northern part of present-day Upper Normandy down to the river Seine, but the Duchy would eventually extend west beyond the Seine. The territory was roughly equivalent to the old province of Rouen, and reproduced the Roman administrative structure of Gallia Lugdunensis II (part of the former Gallia Lugdunensis).

Q1:    What was the first destructive incursions of Norse war bands into the rivers of France
A1:    more permanent encampments

Q2:    What was the name of the duchy of Normandy?
A2:    Saint-Clair-sur-Epte

Q3:    What did the treaty offer to Rollo and his men?
A3:    the French lands between the river Epte and the Atlantic coast

Q4:    What river was the Duchy of Normandy adjacent to?
A4:    the river Seine

Q5:    What was the Roman administrative structure of Gallia Lugdunensis II?
A5:    part of the former Gallia Lugdunensis

-------------------data 16---------------------
context:
Before Rollo's arrival, its populations did not differ from Picardy or the Île-de-France, which were considered "Frankish". Earlier Viking settlers had begun arriving in the 880s, but were divided between colonies in the east (Roumois and Pays de Caux) around the low Seine valley and in the west in the Cotentin Peninsula, and were separated by traditional pagii, where the population remained about the same with almost no foreign settlers. Rollo's contingents who raided and ultimately settled Normandy and parts of the Atlantic coast included Danes, Norwegians, Norse–Gaels, Orkney Vikings, possibly Swedes, and Anglo-Danes from the English Danelaw under Norse control.

Q1:    What was considered French by Rollo's population?
A1:    Frankish

Q2:    What are the two colonies of settlers that were not considered French?
A2:    Picardy or the Île-de-France

Q3:    Who raided and settled Normandy?
A3:    Rollo's contingents

-------------------data 17---------------------
context:
The descendants of Rollo's Vikings and their Frankish wives would replace the Norse religion and Old Norse language with Catholicism (Christianity) and the Gallo-Romance language of the local people, blending their maternal Frankish heritage with Old Norse traditions and customs to synthesize a unique "Norman" culture in the north of France. The Norman language was forged by the adoption of the indigenous langue d'oïl branch of Romance by a Norse-speaking ruling class, and it developed into the regional language that survives today.

Q1:    What was the "Norman" culture created by the Norman language?
A1:    north of France

Q2:    What branch of Romance was created to create the Norman language?
A2:    d'ol

-------------------data 18---------------------
context:
The Normans thereafter adopted the growing feudal doctrines of the rest of France, and worked them into a functional hierarchical system in both Normandy and in England. The new Norman rulers were culturally and ethnically distinct from the old French aristocracy, most of whom traced their lineage to Franks of the Carolingian dynasty. Most Norman knights remained poor and land-hungry, and by 1066 Normandy had been exporting fighting horsemen for more than a generation. Many Normans of Italy, France and England eventually served as avid Crusaders under the Italo-Norman prince Bohemund I and the Anglo-Norman king Richard the Lion-Heart.

Q1:    What did the Normans work as in both Normandy and England?
A1:    functional hierarchical system

Q2:    Who were the Norman rulers of France?
A2:    the old French aristocracy

Q3:    What year did Normandy export fighting horsemen?
A3:    1066

Q4:    Who was the Anglo-Norman king that served as avid Crusaders
A4:    Richard the Lion-Heart

-------------------data 19---------------------
context:
Opportunistic bands of Normans successfully established a foothold in Southern Italy (the Mezzogiorno). Probably as the result of returning pilgrims' stories, the Normans entered the Mezzogiorno as warriors in 1017 at the latest. In 999, according to Amatus of Montecassino, Norman pilgrims returning from Jerusalem called in at the port of Salerno when a Saracen attack occurred. The Normans fought so valiantly that Prince Guaimar III begged them to stay, but they refused and instead offered to tell others back home of the prince's request. William of Apulia tells that, in 1016, Norman pilgrims to the shrine of the Archangel Michael at Monte Gargano were met by Melus of Bari, a Lombard nobleman and rebel, who persuaded them to return with more warriors to help throw off the Byzantine rule, which they did.

Q1:    What is the term for the southern Italy foothold?
A1:    the Mezzogiorno

Q2:    When did Normans enter the Mezzogiorno as warriors?
A2:    1017

Q3:    Where did Norman pilgrims return from Jerusalem call in 999?
A3:    the port of Salerno

Q4:    Who did the Normans try to stay with?
A4:    Prince Guaimar III

Q5:    Who convinced Norman pilgrims to return with more warriors?
A5:    Melus of Bari

-------------------data 20---------------------
context:
The two most prominent Norman families to arrive in the Mediterranean were descendants of Tancred of Hauteville and the Drengot family, of whom Rainulf Drengot received the county of Aversa, the first Norman toehold in the south, from Duke Sergius IV of Naples in 1030. The Hauteville family achieved princely rank by proclaiming prince Guaimar IV of Salerno "Duke of Apulia and Calabria". He promptly awarded their elected leader, William Iron Arm, with the title of count in his capital of Melfi. The Drengot family thereafter attained the principality of Capua, and emperor Henry III legally ennobled the Hauteville leader, Drogo, as "dux et magister Italiae comesque Normannorum totius Apuliae et Calabriae" ("Duke and Master of Italy and Count of the Normans of all Apulia and Calabria") in 1047.

Q1:    Who was the first Norman toehold in the south of Italy?
A1:    Duke Sergius IV of Naples

Q2:    Who was the first Norman to arrive in the Mediterranean?
A2:    Duke Sergius IV of Naples

Q3:    Who was the leader of the Hauteville family?
A3:    Drogo

Q4:    Who was the ruler of the Hauteville leader?
A4:    Drogo

-------------------data 21---------------------
context:
From these bases, the Normans eventually captured Sicily and Malta from the Saracens, under the leadership of the famous Robert Guiscard, a Hauteville, and his younger brother Roger the Great Count. Roger's son, Roger II of Sicily, was crowned king in 1130 (exactly one century after Rainulf was "crowned" count) by Antipope Anacletus II. The Kingdom of Sicily lasted until 1194, when it was transferred to the House of Hohenstaufen through marriage. The Normans left their legacy in many castles, such as William Iron Arm's citadel at Squillace, and cathedrals, such as Roger II's Cappella Palatina chapel at Palermo, which dot the landscape and give a wholly distinct architectural flavor to accompany its unique history.

Q1:    Who was Roger the Great Count?
A1:    younger brother

Q2:    Who was crowned King by Roger II?
A2:    Rainulf

Q3:    When was the Kingdom of Sicily transferred to the House of Hohenstaufen?
A3:    1194

Q4:    Where did the Normans leave their legacy?
A4:    in many castles

-------------------data 22---------------------
context:
Institutionally, the Normans combined the administrative machinery of the Byzantines, Arabs, and Lombards with their own conceptions of feudal law and order to forge a unique government. Under this state, there was great religious freedom, and alongside the Norman nobles existed a meritocratic bureaucracy of Jews, Muslims and Christians, both Catholic and Eastern Orthodox. The Kingdom of Sicily thus became characterized by Norman, Byzantine Greek, Arab, Lombard and "native" Sicilian populations living in harmony, and its Norman rulers fostered plans of establishing an Empire that would have encompassed Fatimid Egypt as well as the Crusader states in the Levant. One of the great geographical treatises of the Middle Ages, the "Tabula Rogeriana", was written by the Andalusian al-Idrisi for king Roger II of Sicily, and entitled "Kitab Rudjdjar" ("The Book of Roger").

Q1:    What did the Normans combine with their conceptions of feudal law and order?
A1:    administrative machinery of the Byzantines, Arabs, and Lombards

Q2:    What was the meritocracy of the meritocracy of the Norman noble
A2:    Jews, Muslims and Christians

Q3:    What was the name of the great geographical treatises of the Middle Ages?
A3:    Tara Rogeriana

Q4:    What was the name of the great geographical treatises of the Middle Ages?
A4:    Tara Rogeriana

-------------------data 23---------------------
context:
Soon after the Normans began to enter Italy, they entered the Byzantine Empire and then Armenia, fighting against the Pechenegs, the Bulgars, and especially the Seljuk Turks. Norman mercenaries were first encouraged to come to the south by the Lombards to act against the Byzantines, but they soon fought in Byzantine service in Sicily. They were prominent alongside Varangian and Lombard contingents in the Sicilian campaign of George Maniaces in 1038–40. There is debate whether the Normans in Greek service actually were from Norman Italy, and it now seems likely only a few came from there. It is also unknown how many of the "Franks", as the Byzantines called them, were Normans and not other Frenchmen.

Q1:    Who were the Normans who entered Italy?
A1:    the Byzantine Empire and then Armenia

Q2:    Who encouraged Norman mercenaries to come to the south?
A2:    the Lombards

Q3:    Who was one of the prominent Norman Normans in the Sicilian campaign of George Mani
A3:    Varangian and Lombard contingents

Q4:    What was the question of whether Normans actually came from Italy?
A4:    Greek service

Q5:    What were the French called by the Byzantines?
A5:    Normans and not other Frenchmen

-------------------data 24---------------------
context:
One of the first Norman mercenaries to serve as a Byzantine general was Hervé in the 1050s. By then however, there were already Norman mercenaries serving as far away as Trebizond and Georgia. They were based at Malatya and Edessa, under the Byzantine duke of Antioch, Isaac Komnenos. In the 1060s, Robert Crispin led the Normans of Edessa against the Turks. Roussel de Bailleul even tried to carve out an independent state in Asia Minor with support from the local population, but he was stopped by the Byzantine general Alexius Komnenos.

Q1:    Who was one of the first Norman mercenaries to serve as a Byzan
A1:    Hervé

Q2:    What were the Norman mercenaries far away from?
A2:    Trebizond and Georgia

Q3:    Who led the Normans of Edessa against the Turks?
A3:    Robert Crispin

Q4:    Who led the Normans of Edessa against the Turks in the 1060s
A4:    Robert Crispin

Q5:    Who stopped Roussel de Bailleul from being an independent state?
A5:    Alexius Komnenos

-------------------data 25---------------------
context:
Some Normans joined Turkish forces to aid in the destruction of the Armenians vassal-states of Sassoun and Taron in far eastern Anatolia. Later, many took up service with the Armenian state further south in Cilicia and the Taurus Mountains. A Norman named Oursel led a force of "Franks" into the upper Euphrates valley in northern Syria. From 1073 to 1074, 8,000 of the 20,000 troops of the Armenian general Philaretus Brachamius were Normans—formerly of Oursel—led by Raimbaud. They even lent their ethnicity to the name of their castle: Afranji, meaning "Franks." The known trade between Amalfi and Antioch and between Bari and Tarsus may be related to the presence of Italo-Normans in those cities while Amalfi and Bari were under Norman rule in Italy.

Q1:    Where were some Normans joining the Turkish forces?
A1:    far eastern Anatolia

Q2:    Where did many Normans take up service with the Armenian state?
A2:    Cilicia and the Taurus Mountains

Q3:    What was the name of the Norman who led the forces of Oursel into the upper
A3:    Franks

Q4:    Who commanded the Normans from 1073 to 1074?
A4:    Raimbaud

Q5:    What did Normans call their ethnicity to?
A5:    Afranji

Q6:    What is the name of the Normans who were under Norman rule in Italy?
A6:    Amalfi and Bari

-------------------data 26---------------------
context:
Several families of Byzantine Greece were of Norman mercenary origin during the period of the Comnenian Restoration, when Byzantine emperors were seeking out western European warriors. The Raoulii were descended from an Italo-Norman named Raoul, the Petraliphae were descended from a Pierre d'Aulps, and that group of Albanian clans known as the Maniakates were descended from Normans who served under George Maniaces in the Sicilian expedition of 1038.

Q1:    What was the name of the descended family of Byzantine Greece?
A1:    Raoul

Q2:    Who was the Petraliphae?
A2:    Pierre d'Aulps

-------------------data 27---------------------
context:
Robert Guiscard, an other Norman adventurer previously elevated to the dignity of count of Apulia as the result of his military successes, ultimately drove the Byzantines out of southern Italy. Having obtained the consent of pope Gregory VII and acting as his vassal, Robert continued his campaign conquering the Balkan peninsula as a foothold for western feudal lords and the Catholic Church. After allying himself with Croatia and the Catholic cities of Dalmatia, in 1081 he led an army of 30,000 men in 300 ships landing on the southern shores of Albania, capturing Valona, Kanina, Jericho (Orikumi), and reaching Butrint after numerous pillages. They joined the fleet that had previously conquered Corfu and attacked Dyrrachium from land and sea, devastating everything along the way. Under these harsh circumstances, the locals accepted the call of emperor Alexius I Comnenus to join forces with the Byzantines against the Normans. The Albanian forces could not take part in the ensuing battle because it had started before their arrival. Immediately before the battle, the Venetian fleet had secured a victory in the coast surrounding the city. Forced to retreat, Alexius ceded the command to a high Albanian official named Comiscortes in the service of Byzantium. The city's garrison resisted until February 1082, when Dyrrachium was betrayed to the Normans by the Venetian and Amalfitan merchants who had settled there. The Normans were now free to penetrate into the hinterland; they took Ioannina and some minor cities in southwestern Macedonia and Thessaly before appearing at the gates of Thessalonica. Dissension among the high ranks coerced the Normans to retreat to Italy. They lost Dyrrachium, Valona, and Butrint in 1085, after the death of Robert.

Q1:    Who was Robert Guiscard's vassal?
A1:    pope Gregory VII

Q2:    Who did Robert Guiscard conquer as a foothold for western lords and
A2:    the Balkan peninsula

Q3:    How many men did Robert Guiscard lead in the army in 1081?
A3:    30,000

Q4:    What did the Byzantines attack from land and sea?
A4:    Dyrrachium

Q5:    Who was the emperor who would join forces with the Byzantines?
A5:    Alexius I Comnenus

Q6:    Why did the Albanian forces not participate?
A6:    it had started before their arrival

Q7:    Who was forced to retreat from the Balkan peninsula?
A7:    Alexius

Q8:    Who was the command of the Albanian official?
A8:    Comiscortes

Q9:    When did the Normans leave the city?
A9:    February 1082

Q10:    Where were the Normans allowed to retreat?
A10:    Italy

Q11:    Who forced the Normans to retreat to Italy?
A11:    Dissension among the high ranks

Q12:    When did the Byzantines lose their place in Italy?
A12:    1085

-------------------data 28---------------------
context:
A few years after the First Crusade, in 1107, the Normans under the command of Bohemond, Robert's son, landed in Valona and besieged Dyrrachium using the most sophisticated military equipment of the time, but to no avail. Meanwhile, they occupied Petrela, the citadel of Mili at the banks of the river Deabolis, Gllavenica (Ballsh), Kanina and Jericho. This time, the Albanians sided with the Normans, dissatisfied by the heavy taxes the Byzantines had imposed upon them. With their help, the Normans secured the Arbanon passes and opened their way to Dibra. The lack of supplies, disease and Byzantine resistance forced Bohemond to retreat from his campaign and sign a peace treaty with the Byzantines in the city of Deabolis.

Q1:    Who was Bohemond's son?
A1:    Robert

Q2:    Where did the Normans occupy Petrela?
A2:    the citadel of Mili at the banks of the river Deabolis, Gll

Q3:    Who did the Albanians sided with?
A3:    the Normans

Q4:    Who secured the Arbanon passes with Bohemond?
A4:    the Normans

Q5:    What did Bohemond sign with the Byzantines?
A5:    peace treaty

-------------------data 29---------------------
context:
The further decline of Byzantine state-of-affairs paved the road to a third attack in 1185, when a large Norman army invaded Dyrrachium, owing to the betrayal of high Byzantine officials. Some time later, Dyrrachium—one of the most important naval bases of the Adriatic—fell again to Byzantine hands.

Q1:    What year did the Norman army invade Dyrrachium?
A1:    1185

Q2:    What was the name of the naval base of the Adriatic?
A2:    Dyrrachium

-------------------data 30---------------------
context:
The Normans were in contact with England from an early date. Not only were their original Viking brethren still ravaging the English coasts, they occupied most of the important ports opposite England across the English Channel. This relationship eventually produced closer ties of blood through the marriage of Emma, sister of Duke Richard II of Normandy, and King Ethelred II of England. Because of this, Ethelred fled to Normandy in 1013, when he was forced from his kingdom by Sweyn Forkbeard. His stay in Normandy (until 1016) influenced him and his sons by Emma, who stayed in Normandy after Cnut the Great's conquest of the isle.

Q1:    Who were in contact with England from an early date?
A1:    The Normans

Q2:    What was the name of the original Viking brethren who were in contact with England?
A2:    Normans

Q3:    Who was Ethelred II of England?
A3:    sister of Duke Richard II of Normandy

Q4:    Who forced Ethelred from Normandy?
A4:    Sweyn Forkbeard

Q5:    Who stayed in Normandy until 1096?
A5:    Emma

-------------------data 31---------------------
context:
When finally Edward the Confessor returned from his father's refuge in 1041, at the invitation of his half-brother Harthacnut, he brought with him a Norman-educated mind. He also brought many Norman counsellors and fighters, some of whom established an English cavalry force. This concept never really took root, but it is a typical example of the attitudes of Edward. He appointed Robert of Jumièges archbishop of Canterbury and made Ralph the Timid earl of Hereford. He invited his brother-in-law Eustace II, Count of Boulogne to his court in 1051, an event which resulted in the greatest of early conflicts between Saxon and Norman and ultimately resulted in the exile of Earl Godwin of Wessex.

Q1:    Who was the half-brother of Edward the Confessor?
A1:    Harthacnut

Q2:    What were some of the Norman counsellors and fighters who brought them with them?
A2:    an English cavalry force

Q3:    What is a typical example of the attitude of Edward?
A3:    Norman counsellors and fighters

Q4:    Who was the Timid earl of Hereford?
A4:    Ralph

Q5:    Who was the Count of Boulogne's brother-in-law?
A5:    Eustace II

-------------------data 32---------------------
context:
In 1066, Duke William II of Normandy conquered England killing King Harold II at the Battle of Hastings. The invading Normans and their descendants replaced the Anglo-Saxons as the ruling class of England. The nobility of England were part of a single Normans culture and many had lands on both sides of the channel. Early Norman kings of England, as Dukes of Normandy, owed homage to the King of France for their land on the continent. They considered England to be their most important holding (it brought with it the title of King—an important status symbol).

Q1:    Who conquered England in 1066?
A1:    Duke William II of Normandy

Q2:    Who replaced the Anglo-Saxons as the ruling class of England?
A2:    descendants

Q3:    What culture were the nobility of England part of?
A3:    Normans culture

Q4:    Who owed homage to the King of France for their land on the continent?
A4:    Early Norman kings of England

Q5:    What was England considered as the most important holding?
A5:    King of France

-------------------data 33---------------------
context:
Eventually, the Normans merged with the natives, combining languages and traditions. In the course of the Hundred Years' War, the Norman aristocracy often identified themselves as English. The Anglo-Norman language became distinct from the Latin language, something that was the subject of some humour by Geoffrey Chaucer. The Anglo-Norman language was eventually absorbed into the Anglo-Saxon language of their subjects (see Old English) and influenced it, helping (along with the Norse language of the earlier Anglo-Norse settlers and the Latin used by the church) in the development of Middle English. It in turn evolved into Modern English.

Q1:    What language was the first language used by the Normans to combine?
A1:    English

Q2:    What language was the subject of some humour?
A2:    Latin

Q3:    Who absorbed the Anglo-Norman language into the Anglo-Saxon language of their
A3:    Geoffrey Chaucer

Q4:    What language was eventually absorbed into the Anglo-Saxon language of their subjects?
A4:    Anglo-Norman

Q5:    What language did the Anglo-Norman language transform into?
A5:    Modern English

-------------------data 34---------------------
context:
The Normans had a profound effect on Irish culture and history after their invasion at Bannow Bay in 1169. Initially the Normans maintained a distinct culture and ethnicity. Yet, with time, they came to be subsumed into Irish culture to the point that it has been said that they became "more Irish than the Irish themselves." The Normans settled mostly in an area in the east of Ireland, later known as the Pale, and also built many fine castles and settlements, including Trim Castle and Dublin Castle. Both cultures intermixed, borrowing from each other's language, culture and outlook. Norman descendants today can be recognised by their surnames. Names such as French, (De) Roche, Devereux, D'Arcy, Treacy and Lacy are particularly common in the southeast of Ireland, especially in the southern part of County Wexford where the first Norman settlements were established. Other Norman names such as Furlong predominate there. Another common Norman-Irish name was Morell (Murrell) derived from the French Norman name Morel. Other names beginning with Fitz (from the Norman for son) indicate Norman ancestry. These included Fitzgerald, FitzGibbons (Gibbons) dynasty, Fitzmaurice. Other families bearing such surnames as Barry (de Barra) and De Búrca (Burke) are also of Norman extraction.

Q1:    When did Normans invade Bannow Bay?
A1:    1169

Q2:    What did the Normans initially maintain?
A2:    distinct culture and ethnicity

Q3:    What was the term for the Normans who settled in Ireland?
A3:    Pale

Q4:    What area did the Normans settle mostly in?
A4:    the east of Ireland

Q5:    What are the two cultures that the Normans intermixed?
A5:    Trim Castle and Dublin Castle

Q6:    What are Norman descendants recognised by their surnames?
A6:    French

Q7:    What are the Normans' surnames?
A7:    French, (De) Roche, Devereux, D'Arcy, Tre

Q8:    What is the French Norman name that dominates Ireland?
A8:    Morel

Q9:    What is the French Norman name for Morell?
A9:    Murrell

Q10:    What is the French Norman name from?
A10:    Morel

Q11:    What is the surname of the Fitzgerald dynasty?
A11:    FitzGibbons

Q12:    What are the surnames Barry (de Barra) and De Brca (
A12:    Dunke

-------------------data 35---------------------
context:
One of the claimants of the English throne opposing William the Conqueror, Edgar Atheling, eventually fled to Scotland. King Malcolm III of Scotland married Edgar's sister Margaret, and came into opposition to William who had already disputed Scotland's southern borders. William invaded Scotland in 1072, riding as far as Abernethy where he met up with his fleet of ships. Malcolm submitted, paid homage to William and surrendered his son Duncan as a hostage, beginning a series of arguments as to whether the Scottish Crown owed allegiance to the King of England.

Q1:    Who was the hostage of the Scottish Crown?
A1:    Duncan

Q2:    Who married Margaret Margaret, who was the hostage of King Malcolm III?
A2:    Edgar's sister Margaret

Q3:    When did William invade Scotland?
A3:    1072

Q4:    Who did Malcolm III give homage to?
A4:    William

-------------------data 36---------------------
context:
Normans came into Scotland, building castles and founding noble families who would provide some future kings, such as Robert the Bruce, as well as founding a considerable number of the Scottish clans. King David I of Scotland, whose elder brother Alexander I had married Sybilla of Normandy, was instrumental in introducing Normans and Norman culture to Scotland, part of the process some scholars call the "Davidian Revolution". Having spent time at the court of Henry I of England (married to David's sister Maud of Scotland), and needing them to wrestle the kingdom from his half-brother Máel Coluim mac Alaxandair, David had to reward many with lands. The process was continued under David's successors, most intensely of all under William the Lion. The Norman-derived feudal system was applied in varying degrees to most of Scotland. Scottish families of the names Bruce, Gray, Ramsay, Fraser, Ogilvie, Montgomery, Sinclair, Pollock, Burnard, Douglas and Gordon to name but a few, and including the later royal House of Stewart, can all be traced back to Norman ancestry.

Q1:    What was the name of the noble family that would include Normans from Scotland?
A1:    Bruce, Gray, Ramsay, Fraser, Ogilvie, Montgomery, Sinclair,

Q2:    Who was the elder brother of King David I?
A2:    Alexander I

Q3:    Who was David's half-brother?
A3:    Máel Coluim mac Alaxandair

Q4:    Who was the most intensely of all successors of David the Lion?
A4:    William the Lion

Q5:    What type of system was applied to most of Scotland?
A5:    Norman-derived feudal

Q6:    What are some of the Scottish families of Normans that have been traced back to Norman
A6:    Bruce, Gray, Ramsay, Fraser, Ogilvie, Montgomery, Sinclair,

-------------------data 37---------------------
context:
Even before the Norman Conquest of England, the Normans had come into contact with Wales. Edward the Confessor had set up the aforementioned Ralph as earl of Hereford and charged him with defending the Marches and warring with the Welsh. In these original ventures, the Normans failed to make any headway into Wales.

Q1:    Who was the earl of Hereford?
A1:    Ralph

Q2:    Who was the earl of Herefordshire?
A2:    Ralph

Q3:    Who did the Normans fail to make a progress towards Wales?
A3:    Edward the Confessor

-------------------data 38---------------------
context:
Subsequent to the Conquest, however, the Marches came completely under the dominance of William's most trusted Norman barons, including Bernard de Neufmarché, Roger of Montgomery in Shropshire and Hugh Lupus in Cheshire. These Normans began a long period of slow conquest during which almost all of Wales was at some point subject to Norman interference. Norman words, such as baron (barwn), first entered Welsh at that time.

Q1:    Who was Roger of Montgomery in Shropshire?
A1:    Bernard de Neufmarché

Q2:    What was the name of the long period of conquest that almost all of Wales was subject to
A2:    Norman interference

Q3:    What was the name of the Norman word that was first entered Welsh?
A3:    baron (barwn)

-------------------data 39---------------------
context:
The legendary religious zeal of the Normans was exercised in religious wars long before the First Crusade carved out a Norman principality in Antioch. They were major foreign participants in the Reconquista in Iberia. In 1018, Roger de Tosny travelled to the Iberian Peninsula to carve out a state for himself from Moorish lands, but failed. In 1064, during the War of Barbastro, William of Montreuil led the papal army and took a huge booty.

Q1:    What was the name of the Normans' principality?
A1:    Antioch

Q2:    What event were the Normans major foreign participants in?
A2:    the Reconquista in Iberia

Q3:    Who did Roger de Tosny travel to the Iberian Peninsula in 1018?
A3:    carve out a state for himself from Moorish lands, but failed

Q4:    Who led the papal army during the War of Barbastro?
A4:    William of Montreuil

-------------------data 40---------------------
context:
In 1096, Crusaders passing by the siege of Amalfi were joined by Bohemond of Taranto and his nephew Tancred with an army of Italo-Normans. Bohemond was the de facto leader of the Crusade during its passage through Asia Minor. After the successful Siege of Antioch in 1097, Bohemond began carving out an independent principality around that city. Tancred was instrumental in the conquest of Jerusalem and he worked for the expansion of the Crusader kingdom in Transjordan and the region of Galilee.[citation needed]

Q1:    Who was Bohemond's nephew?
A1:    Tancred

Q2:    What was Bohemond's profession when it passed Asia Minor?
A2:    leader of the Crusade

Q3:    What year did Bohemond start carving out an independent principality around Jerusalem?
A3:    1097

Q4:    What region of Galilee was the Crusader kingdom populated by?
A4:    Transjordan

-------------------data 41---------------------
context:
The conquest of Cyprus by the Anglo-Norman forces of the Third Crusade opened a new chapter in the history of the island, which would be under Western European domination for the following 380 years. Although not part of a planned operation, the conquest had much more permanent results than initially expected.

Q1:    What was the name of the new chapter in the history of St. Barts?
A1:    Cyprus

Q2:    What was the result of the conquest of Cyprus?
A2:    much more permanent results than initially expected

-------------------data 42---------------------
context:
In April 1191 Richard the Lion-hearted left Messina with a large fleet in order to reach Acre. But a storm dispersed the fleet. After some searching, it was discovered that the boat carrying his sister and his fiancée Berengaria was anchored on the south coast of Cyprus, together with the wrecks of several other ships, including the treasure ship. Survivors of the wrecks had been taken prisoner by the island's despot Isaac Komnenos. On 1 May 1191, Richard's fleet arrived in the port of Limassol on Cyprus. He ordered Isaac to release the prisoners and the treasure. Isaac refused, so Richard landed his troops and took Limassol.

Q1:    What year did Richard leave Messina?
A1:    1191

Q2:    What caused the dispersion of the fleet?
A2:    a storm

Q3:    What was the name of the sister who was anchored on the south coast of Cyprus?
A3:    Berengaria

Q4:    Who took Survivors of the wrecks?
A4:    Isaac Komnenos

Q5:    Where did Richard's fleet arrive on May 1st?
A5:    Limassol on Cyprus

Q6:    Who ordered Isaac to release the prisoners?
A6:    Richard's fleet

Q7:    Who did Richard refuse to release?
A7:    Isaac

-------------------data 43---------------------
context:
Various princes of the Holy Land arrived in Limassol at the same time, in particular Guy de Lusignan. All declared their support for Richard provided that he support Guy against his rival Conrad of Montferrat. The local barons abandoned Isaac, who considered making peace with Richard, joining him on the crusade, and offering his daughter in marriage to the person named by Richard. But Isaac changed his mind and tried to escape. Richard then proceeded to conquer the whole island, his troops being led by Guy de Lusignan. Isaac surrendered and was confined with silver chains, because Richard had promised that he would not place him in irons. By 1 June, Richard had conquered the whole island. His exploit was well publicized and contributed to his reputation; he also derived significant financial gains from the conquest of the island. Richard left for Acre on 5 June, with his allies. Before his departure, he named two of his Norman generals, Richard de Camville and Robert de Thornham, as governors of Cyprus.

Q1:    Who supported Richard Richard?
A1:    Guy de Lusignan

Q2:    Who supported Richard as a result of his actions against him?
A2:    Guy de Lusignan

Q3:    Who abandoned Isaac?
A3:    The local barons

Q4:    Who led Richard's troops on the crusade?
A4:    Guy de Lusignan

Q5:    Who led Richard's troops to the island?
A5:    Guy de Lusignan

Q6:    What was Richard's promise that he would not place him in irons?
A6:    Isaac surrendered and was confined with silver chains

Q7:    What was Richard's exploit?
A7:    well publicized and contributed to his reputation

Q8:    What was Richard's financial gain from?
A8:    the conquest of the island

Q9:    What year did Richard leave Acre?
A9:    5 June

Q10:    Who was Richard de Camville's governor?
A10:    Robert de Thornham

-------------------data 44---------------------
context:
While in Limassol, Richard the Lion-Heart married Berengaria of Navarre, first-born daughter of King Sancho VI of Navarre. The wedding was held on 12 May 1191 at the Chapel of St. George and it was attended by Richard's sister Joan, whom he had brought from Sicily. The marriage was celebrated with great pomp and splendor. Among other grand ceremonies was a double coronation: Richard caused himself to be crowned King of Cyprus, and Berengaria Queen of England and Queen of Cyprus as well.

Q1:    Who was the first daughter of King Sancho VI?
A1:    Berengaria of Navarre

Q2:    What was the name of Richard's sister?
A2:    Joan

Q3:    What was the theme of the marriage?
A3:    great pomp and splendor

Q4:    What was the name of the queen that Richard caused himself to become?
A4:    King of Cyprus

-------------------data 45---------------------
context:
The rapid Anglo-Norman conquest proved more important than it seemed. The island occupied a key strategic position on the maritime lanes to the Holy Land, whose occupation by the Christians could not continue without support from the sea. Shortly after the conquest, Cyprus was sold to the Knights Templar and it was subsequently acquired, in 1192, by Guy de Lusignan and became a stable feudal kingdom. It was only in 1489 that the Venetians acquired full control of the island, which remained a Christian stronghold until the fall of Famagusta in 1571.

Q1:    What was more important than it seemed to be after the Anglo-Norman conquest?
A1:    The rapid Anglo-Norman conquest

Q2:    What was the name of the stable feudal kingdom?
A2:    Cyprus

Q3:    Who acquired Cyprus shortly after the conquest?
A3:    Guy de Lusignan

Q4:    When did the Venetians acquire full control of the island?
A4:    1489

-------------------data 46---------------------
context:
Between 1402 and 1405, the expedition led by the Norman noble Jean de Bethencourt and the Poitevine Gadifer de la Salle conquered the Canarian islands of Lanzarote, Fuerteventura and El Hierro off the Atlantic coast of Africa. Their troops were gathered in Normandy, Gascony and were later reinforced by Castilian colonists.

Q1:    Who led the expedition?
A1:    Jean de Bethencourt and the Poitevine Gadifer de la Salle

Q2:    Where were the troops gathered?
A2:    Normandy, Gascony

-------------------data 47---------------------
context:
Bethencourt took the title of King of the Canary Islands, as vassal to Henry III of Castile. In 1418, Jean's nephew Maciot de Bethencourt sold the rights to the islands to Enrique Pérez de Guzmán, 2nd Count de Niebla.

Q1:    Who sold the rights to the islands to?
A1:    Enrique Pérez de Guzmán

Q2:    Who sold the rights to the islands to?
A2:    Enrique Pérez de Guzmán

-------------------data 48---------------------
context:
The customary law of Normandy was developed between the 10th and 13th centuries and survives today through the legal systems of Jersey and Guernsey in the Channel Islands. Norman customary law was transcribed in two customaries in Latin by two judges for use by them and their colleagues: These are the Très ancien coutumier (Very ancient customary), authored between 1200 and 1245; and the Grand coutumier de Normandie (Great customary of Normandy, originally Summa de legibus Normanniae in curia laïcali), authored between 1235 and 1245.

Q1:    What islands does the customary law of Normandy survive today?
A1:    Jersey and Guernsey

Q2:    What is the Grand coutumier de Normandie?
A2:    Great customary of Normandy

-------------------data 49---------------------
context:
Norman architecture typically stands out as a new stage in the architectural history of the regions they subdued. They spread a unique Romanesque idiom to England and Italy, and the encastellation of these regions with keeps in their north French style fundamentally altered the military landscape. Their style was characterised by rounded arches, particularly over windows and doorways, and massive proportions.

Q1:    What is Norman architecture a new stage in?
A1:    the architectural history of the regions they subdued

Q2:    What style of architecture did Norman architecture spread?
A2:    Romanesque

Q3:    What architectural style was characterized by rounded arches?
A3:    north French

-------------------data 50---------------------
context:
In England, the period of Norman architecture immediately succeeds that of the Anglo-Saxon and precedes the Early Gothic. In southern Italy, the Normans incorporated elements of Islamic, Lombard, and Byzantine building techniques into their own, initiating a unique style known as Norman-Arab architecture within the Kingdom of Sicily.

Q1:    What period of architecture precedes the Early Gothic?
A1:    Norman architecture

Q2:    What was the style of Norman architecture created by the Normans in southern Italy?
A2:    Norman-Arab architecture

-------------------data 51---------------------
context:
In the visual arts, the Normans did not have the rich and distinctive traditions of the cultures they conquered. However, in the early 11th century the dukes began a programme of church reform, encouraging the Cluniac reform of monasteries and patronising intellectual pursuits, especially the proliferation of scriptoria and the reconstitution of a compilation of lost illuminated manuscripts. The church was utilised by the dukes as a unifying force for their disparate duchy. The chief monasteries taking part in this "renaissance" of Norman art and scholarship were Mont-Saint-Michel, Fécamp, Jumièges, Bec, Saint-Ouen, Saint-Evroul, and Saint-Wandrille. These centres were in contact with the so-called "Winchester school", which channeled a pure Carolingian artistic tradition to Normandy. In the final decade of the 11th and first of the 12th century, Normandy experienced a golden age of illustrated manuscripts, but it was brief and the major scriptoria of Normandy ceased to function after the midpoint of the century.

Q1:    What visual arts skill did the Normans not have?
A1:    rich and distinctive traditions of the cultures they conquered

Q2:    What was the programme of church reform that encouraged the Cluniac reform and patronising
A2:    intellectual pursuits

Q3:    Who utilised the church as a unifying force for their disparate duchy?
A3:    the dukes

Q4:    Who were the chief monasteries taking part in?
A4:    Mont-Saint-Michel, Fécamp, Jumièges, Bec,

Q5:    What school channeled a pure Carolingian artistic tradition to Normandy?
A5:    Winchester school

Q6:    What was Normandy's final decade of the 11th and 12th century?
A6:    a golden age of illustrated manuscripts

-------------------data 52---------------------
context:
The French Wars of Religion in the 16th century and French Revolution in the 18th successively destroyed much of what existed in the way of the architectural and artistic remnant of this Norman creativity. The former, with their violence, caused the wanton destruction of many Norman edifices; the latter, with its assault on religion, caused the purposeful destruction of religious objects of any type, and its destabilisation of society resulted in rampant pillaging.

Q1:    What was the French Wars of Religion?
A1:    the 16th century

Q2:    What caused the wanton destruction of many Norman edifices?
A2:    their violence

-------------------data 53---------------------
context:
By far the most famous work of Norman art is the Bayeux Tapestry, which is not a tapestry but a work of embroidery. It was commissioned by Odo, the Bishop of Bayeux and first Earl of Kent, employing natives from Kent who were learned in the Nordic traditions imported in the previous half century by the Danish Vikings.

Q1:    What is the Bayeux Tapestry?
A1:    a work of embroidery

Q2:    Who was the first Earl of Kent?
A2:    Odo

-------------------data 54---------------------
context:
In Britain, Norman art primarily survives as stonework or metalwork, such as capitals and baptismal fonts. In southern Italy, however, Norman artwork survives plentifully in forms strongly influenced by its Greek, Lombard, and Arab forebears. Of the royal regalia preserved in Palermo, the crown is Byzantine in style and the coronation cloak is of Arab craftsmanship with Arabic inscriptions. Many churches preserve sculptured fonts, capitals, and more importantly mosaics, which were common in Norman Italy and drew heavily on the Greek heritage. Lombard Salerno was a centre of ivorywork in the 11th century and this continued under Norman domination. Finally should be noted the intercourse between French Crusaders traveling to the Holy Land who brought with them French artefacts with which to gift the churches at which they stopped in southern Italy amongst their Norman cousins. For this reason many south Italian churches preserve works from France alongside their native pieces.

Q1:    What are fonts and baptismal fonts used in Norman art in Britain?
A1:    capitals

Q2:    What are the forms Norman art survives in southern Italy?
A2:    Greek, Lombard, and Arab forebears

Q3:    What is the coronation cloak of?
A3:    Arab craftsmanship with Arabic inscriptions

Q4:    What was common in Norman Italy?
A4:    sculptured fonts, capitals, and more importantly mosaics

Q5:    What was the centre of ivorywork in the 11th century?
A5:    Lombard Salerno

Q6:    What were French artefacts brought with them?
A6:    to gift the churches at which they stopped in southern Italy amongst their Norman cousins

Q7:    What south Italian churches preserve works from France?
A7:    their native pieces

-------------------data 55---------------------
context:
Normandy was the site of several important developments in the history of classical music in the 11th century. Fécamp Abbey and Saint-Evroul Abbey were centres of musical production and education. At Fécamp, under two Italian abbots, William of Volpiano and John of Ravenna, the system of denoting notes by letters was developed and taught. It is still the most common form of pitch representation in English- and German-speaking countries today. Also at Fécamp, the staff, around which neumes were oriented, was first developed and taught in the 11th century. Under the German abbot Isembard, La Trinité-du-Mont became a centre of musical composition.

Q1:    What was the site of several important developments in the history of classical music in the 11th century
A1:    Normandy

Q2:    What were the two centres of musical production and education in Normandy?
A2:    Fécamp Abbey and Saint-Evroul Abbey

Q3:    What was the most common form of pitch representation in English- and German-speaking countries today?
A3:    denoting notes by letters

Q4:    What language is pitch representation still common in English and German countries today?
A4:    English

Q5:    When was the staff first developed and taught at Fécamp?
A5:    the 11th century

Q6:    Who was the first abbot to develop and teach at Fécamp?
A6:    William of Volpiano and John of Ravenna

-------------------data 56---------------------
context:
At Saint Evroul, a tradition of singing had developed and the choir achieved fame in Normandy. Under the Norman abbot Robert de Grantmesnil, several monks of Saint-Evroul fled to southern Italy, where they were patronised by Robert Guiscard and established a Latin monastery at Sant'Eufemia. There they continued the tradition of singing.

Q1:    What was Saint Evroul's tradition of singing?
A1:    Normandy

Q2:    What was the name of the Latin monastery established by the abbot Robert de Grantmesnil
A2:    Sant'Eufemia

Q3:    What did the choir continue to sing?
A3:    tradition of singing

-------------------data 57---------------------
context:
Nikola Tesla (Serbian Cyrillic: Никола Тесла; 10 July 1856 – 7 January 1943) was a Serbian American inventor, electrical engineer, mechanical engineer, physicist, and futurist best known for his contributions to the design of the modern alternating current (AC) electricity supply system.

Q1:    What year was Nikola Tesla born?
A1:    1943

-------------------data 58---------------------
context:
Tesla gained experience in telephony and electrical engineering before emigrating to the United States in 1884 to work for Thomas Edison in New York City. He soon struck out on his own with financial backers, setting up laboratories and companies to develop a range of electrical devices. His patented AC induction motor and transformer were licensed by George Westinghouse, who also hired Tesla for a short time as a consultant. His work in the formative years of electric power development was involved in a corporate alternating current/direct current "War of Currents" as well as various patent battles.

Q1:    What was the name of the Edison company that Tesla worked for?
A1:    Thomas Edison

Q2:    What company did Westinghouse work for?
A2:    Thomas Edison

Q3:    Who was Westinghouse's job when he hired Tesla to work for Thomas Edison?
A3:    consultant

Q4:    What was the name of the company that began his work in the formative years of electric power
A4:    Thomas Edison

-------------------data 59---------------------
context:
Tesla went on to pursue his ideas of wireless lighting and electricity distribution in his high-voltage, high-frequency power experiments in New York and Colorado Springs, and made early (1893) pronouncements on the possibility of wireless communication with his devices. He tried to put these ideas to practical use in an ill-fated attempt at intercontinental wireless transmission, his unfinished Wardenclyffe Tower project. In his lab he also conducted a range of experiments with mechanical oscillators/generators, electrical discharge tubes, and early X-ray imaging. He also built a wireless controlled boat, one of the first ever exhibited.

Q1:    What year did Tesla start his high-voltage, high-frequency power experiments?
A1:    1893

Q2:    What was the name of Tesla's unfinished project?
A2:    Wardenclyffe Tower

Q3:    What did Tesla do in his lab?
A3:    conducted a range of experiments with mechanical oscillators/generators, electrical discharge tubes

Q4:    What was the first wireless controlled boat built by Tesla?
A4:    one of the first ever exhibited

-------------------data 60---------------------
context:
Tesla was renowned for his achievements and showmanship, eventually earning him a reputation in popular culture as an archetypal "mad scientist". His patents earned him a considerable amount of money, much of which was used to finance his own projects with varying degrees of success.:121,154 He lived most of his life in a series of New York hotels, through his retirement. Tesla died on 7 January 1943. His work fell into relative obscurity after his death, but in 1960 the General Conference on Weights and Measures named the SI unit of magnetic flux density the tesla in his honor. There has been a resurgence in popular interest in Tesla since the 1990s.

Q1:    What was the name of the man who lived most of his life in New York?
A1:    121,154

Q2:    What was the amount of money Tesla spent on his own projects?
A2:    considerable amount of money

Q3:    When did Tesla die?
A3:    7 January 1943

Q4:    What year did the General Conference on Weights and Measures name the SI unit of magnetic flux
A4:    1960

Q5:    What has happened in popularity since the 1990s?
A5:    a resurgence in popular interest in Tesla

-------------------data 61---------------------
context:
Tesla was born on 10 July [O.S. 28 June] 1856 into a Serb family in the village of Smiljan, Austrian Empire (modern-day Croatia). His father, Milutin Tesla, was a Serbian Orthodox priest. Tesla's mother, Đuka Tesla (née Mandić), whose father was also an Orthodox priest,:10 had a talent for making home craft tools, mechanical appliances, and the ability to memorize Serbian epic poems. Đuka had never received a formal education. Nikola credited his eidetic memory and creative abilities to his mother's genetics and influence. Tesla's progenitors were from western Serbia, near Montenegro.:12

Q1:    What village was Tesla born in?
A1:    Smiljan, Austrian Empire

Q2:    What was the name of Tesla's father?
A2:    Milutin Tesla

Q3:    What was the name of Tesla's mother?
A3:    uka Tesla

Q4:    What kind of memory did Nikola Tesla have?
A4:    eidetic

Q5:    What did Nikola Tesla's mother do?
A5:    genetics and influence

Q6:    Where were Tesla's progenitors from?
A6:    western Serbia, near Montenegro

-------------------data 62---------------------
context:
Tesla was the fourth of five children. He had an older brother named Dane and three sisters, Milka, Angelina and Marica. Dane was killed in a horse-riding accident when Nikola was five. In 1861, Tesla attended the "Lower" or "Primary" School in Smiljan where he studied German, arithmetic, and religion. In 1862, the Tesla family moved to Gospić, Austrian Empire, where Tesla's father worked as a pastor. Nikola completed "Lower" or "Primary" School, followed by the "Lower Real Gymnasium" or "Normal School."

Q1:    How many children did Tesla have?
A1:    four

Q2:    What was the name of the older brother that Tesla had?
A2:    Dane

Q3:    What was the name of the older brother that died in the accident?
A3:    Dane

Q4:    Where did Tesla go after he went to the "Lower" or "Prim
A4:    Gospi, Austrian Empire

Q5:    Where did the family move to in 1862?
A5:    Gospi, Austrian Empire

Q6:    What school did Nikola attend?
A6:    Lower or "Primary" School

-------------------data 63---------------------
context:
In 1870, Tesla moved to Karlovac, to attend school at the Higher Real Gymnasium, where he was profoundly influenced by a math teacher Martin Sekulić.:32 The classes were held in German, as it was a school within the Austro-Hungarian Military Frontier. Tesla was able to perform integral calculus in his head, which prompted his teachers to believe that he was cheating. He finished a four-year term in three years, graduating in 1873.:33

Q1:    What was the name of the school that Charles Tesla went to in 1870?
A1:    Karlovac

Q2:    What was the name of the instrument Tesla was able to perform in his head?
A2:    integral calculus

Q3:    How many years did Tesla finish his term?
A3:    four-year

-------------------data 64---------------------
context:
In 1873, Tesla returned to his birthtown, Smiljan. Shortly after he arrived, Tesla contracted cholera; he was bedridden for nine months and was near death multiple times. Tesla's father, in a moment of despair, promised to send him to the best engineering school if he recovered from the illness (his father had originally wanted him to enter the priesthood).

Q1:    What was the name of the birth town of Tesla?
A1:    Smiljan

Q2:    How long did he contract cholera?
A2:    nine months

Q3:    What was the name of Tesla's father?
A3:    Smiljan

-------------------data 65---------------------
context:
In 1874, Tesla evaded being drafted into the Austro-Hungarian Army in Smiljan by running away to Tomingaj, near Gračac. There, he explored the mountains in hunter's garb. Tesla said that this contact with nature made him stronger, both physically and mentally. He read many books while in Tomingaj, and later said that Mark Twain's works had helped him to miraculously recover from his earlier illness.

Q1:    Where did Tesla go after being drafted?
A1:    Tomingaj, near Graac.

Q2:    What mountains did Tesla explore in hunter's garb?
A2:    the mountains

Q3:    What did Tesla believe was the relationship with nature that helped him?
A3:    stronger

Q4:    What did Twain's work help him recover from?
A4:    earlier illness

-------------------data 66---------------------
context:
In 1875, Tesla enrolled at Austrian Polytechnic in Graz, Austria, on a Military Frontier scholarship. During his first year, Tesla never missed a lecture, earned the highest grades possible, passed nine exams (nearly twice as many required), started a Serbian culture club, and even received a letter of commendation from the dean of the technical faculty to his father, which stated, "Your son is a star of first rank." Tesla claimed that he worked from 3 a.m. to 11 p.m., no Sundays or holidays excepted. He was "mortified when [his] father made light of [those] hard won honors." After his father's death in 1879, Tesla found a package of letters from his professors to his father, warning that unless he were removed from the school, Tesla would be killed through overwork. During his second year, Tesla came into conflict with Professor Poeschl over the Gramme dynamo, when Tesla suggested that commutators weren't necessary. At the end of his second year, Tesla lost his scholarship and became addicted to gambling. During his third year, Tesla gambled away his allowance and his tuition money, later gambling back his initial losses and returning the balance to his family. Tesla said that he "conquered [his] passion then and there," but later he was known to play billiards in the US. When exam time came, Tesla was unprepared and asked for an extension to study, but was denied. He never graduated from the university and did not receive grades for the last semester.

Q1:    What was the name of the scholarship that Tesla did in 1875?
A1:    Military Frontier

Q2:    How many exams did Tesla have during his first year of college?
A2:    nine

Q3:    What hours did Tesla work from 3 a.m. to 11 p.m.
A3:    no Sundays or holidays excepted

Q4:    What honor did Tesla's father give light to?
A4:    hard won honors

Q5:    What happened to Tesla's father when he discovered letters from his professors?
A5:    death

Q6:    Who did Tesla come into conflict with during his second year of college?
A6:    Professor Poeschl

Q7:    What was Tesla's second year of college?
A7:    Military Frontier

Q8:    What was the name of Tesla's third year of college?
A8:    Military Frontier

Q9:    What sport did Tesla play at the beginning of his third year in the US?
A9:    billiards

Q10:    What was the name of Tesla's second year of study?
A10:    Gramme dynamo

Q11:    What year did Tesla never graduate from the Austrian Polytechnic school?
A11:    1875

-------------------data 67---------------------
context:
In December 1878, Tesla left Graz and severed all relations with his family to hide the fact that he dropped out of school. His friends thought that he had drowned in the Mur River. Tesla went to Maribor (now in Slovenia), where he worked as a draftsman for 60 florins a month. He spent his spare time playing cards with local men on the streets. In March 1879, Milutin Tesla went to Maribor to beg his son to return home, but Nikola refused. Nikola suffered a nervous breakdown at around the same time.

Q1:    What year did Tesla leave Graz?
A1:    1878

Q2:    What was the name of the man who went to Maribor?
A2:    Milutin Tesla

Q3:    How many florins does he work as a draftsman?
A3:    60

Q4:    What did Nikola Tesla play with while he was in Slovenia?
A4:    local men

Q5:    Who did Nikola Tesla go to Maribor in March 1879?
A5:    Milutin Tesla

Q6:    What was Nikola's nervous breakdown?
A6:    around the same time.

-------------------data 68---------------------
context:
On 24 March 1879, Tesla was returned to Gospić under police guard for not having a residence permit. On 17 April 1879, Milutin Tesla died at the age of 60 after contracting an unspecified illness (although some sources say that he died of a stroke). During that year, Tesla taught a large class of students in his old school, Higher Real Gymnasium, in Gospić.

Q1:    What happened to Tesla in March 1879?
A1:    returned to Gospi

Q2:    What was the name of the person who died after Milutin Tesla died?
A2:    60

Q3:    What was the name of the school that Milutin Tesla taught?
A3:    Higher Real Gymnasium

-------------------data 69---------------------
context:
In January 1880, two of Tesla's uncles put together enough money to help him leave Gospić for Prague where he was to study. Unfortunately, he arrived too late to enroll at Charles-Ferdinand University; he never studied Greek, a required subject; and he was illiterate in Czech, another required subject. Tesla did, however, attend lectures at the university, although, as an auditor, he did not receive grades for the courses.

Q1:    Who did Tesla's uncles work together?
A1:    two

Q2:    What language did Tesla's illiterate at Charles-Ferdinand University?
A2:    Czech

Q3:    What did Tesla attend as an auditor?
A3:    lectures at the university

-------------------data 70---------------------
context:
In 1881, Tesla moved to Budapest to work under Ferenc Puskás at a telegraph company, the Budapest Telephone Exchange. Upon arrival, Tesla realized that the company, then under construction, was not functional, so he worked as a draftsman in the Central Telegraph Office instead. Within a few months, the Budapest Telephone Exchange became functional and Tesla was allocated the chief electrician position. During his employment, Tesla made many improvements to the Central Station equipment and claimed to have perfected a telephone repeater or amplifier, which was never patented nor publicly described.

Q1:    What company did Tesla move to Budapest to work under?
A1:    the Budapest Telephone Exchange

Q2:    What was the name of the telegraph company that Tesla moved to Budapest to work under?
A2:    the Budapest Telephone Exchange

Q3:    What was the first electrician position for Tesla?
A3:    chief electrician

Q4:    What was never publicly described as a telephone repeater?
A4:    amplifier

-------------------data 71---------------------
context:
In 1882, Tesla began working for the Continental Edison Company in France, designing and making improvements to electrical equipment. In June 1884, he relocated to New York City:57–60 where he was hired by Thomas Edison to work at his Edison Machine Works on Manhattan's lower east side. Tesla's work for Edison began with simple electrical engineering and quickly progressed to solving more difficult problems.

Q1:    What company did Tesla start working for in 1882?
A1:    Continental Edison Company

Q2:    What city did Tesla relocate to in June 1884?
A2:    New York City

Q3:    What was the first job of Tesla when he moved to New York City?
A3:    work at his Edison Machine Works

-------------------data 72---------------------
context:
Tesla was offered the task of completely redesigning the Edison Company's direct current generators. In 1885, he said that he could redesign Edison's inefficient motor and generators, making an improvement in both service and economy. According to Tesla, Edison remarked, "There's fifty thousand dollars in it for you—if you can do it.":54–57 :64 This has been noted as an odd statement from an Edison whose company was stingy with pay and who did not have that sort of cash on hand. After months of work, Tesla fulfilled the task and inquired about payment. Edison, saying that he was only joking, replied, "Tesla, you don't understand our American humor.":64  Instead, Edison offered a US$10 a week raise over Tesla's US$18 per week salary; Tesla refused the offer and immediately resigned.

Q1:    What was the purpose of the Edison Company's direct current generators?
A1:    completely redesigning

Q2:    What was the purpose of the Edison Company's labor plan?
A2:    completely redesigning the Edison Company's direct current generators

Q3:    How many dollars did Tesla have in it?
A3:    fifty thousand

Q4:    What did the Edison company offer to redesign after months of work?
A4:    a US$10 a week raise

Q5:    What did Edison offer a $10 raise for the Tesla company?
A5:    US$10 per week salary

-------------------data 73---------------------
context:
After leaving Edison's company Tesla partnered with two businessmen in 1886, Robert Lane and Benjamin Vail, who agreed to finance an electric lighting company in Tesla's name, Tesla Electric Light & Manufacturing. The company installed electrical arc light based illumination systems designed by Tesla and also had designs for dynamo electric machine commutators, the first patents issued to Tesla in the US.

Q1:    Who did the company partner with?
A1:    Robert Lane and Benjamin Vail

Q2:    What were the first patents to Tesla?
A2:    dynamo electric machine commutators

-------------------data 74---------------------
context:
The investors showed little interest in Tesla's ideas for new types of motors and electrical transmission equipment and also seemed to think it was better to develop an electrical utility than invent new systems. They eventually forced Tesla out leaving him penniless. He even lost control of the patents he had generated since he had assigned them to the company in lieu of stock. He had to work at various electrical repair jobs and even as a ditch digger for $2 per day. Tesla considered the winter of 1886/1887 as a time of "terrible headaches and bitter tears." During this time, he questioned the value of his education.

Q1:    What did Tesla believe was better for investors to develop?
A1:    an electrical utility

Q2:    What did Tesla eventually leave Tesla?
A2:    penniless

Q3:    What company did Tesla assign the patents to?
A3:    stock

Q4:    How much did Tesla spend per day doing?
A4:    $2

Q5:    What year did Tesla consider it a time of bitter tears?
A5:    1886/1887

Q6:    What year did Tesla begin to study Tesla?
A6:    1886/1887

-------------------data 75---------------------
context:
In late 1886 Tesla met Alfred S. Brown, a Western Union superintendent, and New York attorney Charles F. Peck. The two men were experienced in setting up companies and promoting inventions and patents for financial gain. Based on Tesla's patents and other ideas they agreed to back him financially and handle his patents. Together in April 1887 they formed the Tesla Electric Company with an agreement that profits from generated patents would go ⅓ to Tesla, ⅓ to Peck and Brown, and ⅓ to fund development. They set up a laboratory for Tesla at 89 Liberty Street in Manhattan where he worked on improving and developing new types of electric motors, generators and other devices.

Q1:    Who was the Western Union superintendent?
A1:    Alfred S. Brown

Q2:    Who was an attorney for Tesla?
A2:    Charles F. Peck

Q3:    What did the two men form for Tesla?
A3:    a laboratory

Q4:    What year did Tesla and Peck form the Tesla Electric Company?
A4:    1887

Q5:    What street is the Tesla Electric Company located on?
A5:    89 Liberty Street

-------------------data 76---------------------
context:
One of the things Tesla developed at that laboratory in 1887 was an induction motor that ran on alternating current, a power system format that was starting to be built in Europe and the United States because of its advantages in long-distance, high-voltage transmission. The motor used polyphase current which generated a rotating magnetic field to turn the motor (a principle Tesla claimed to have conceived in 1882). This innovative electric motor, patented in May 1888, was a simple self-starting design that did not need a commutator, thus avoiding sparking and the high maintenance of constantly servicing and replacing mechanical brushes.

Q1:    What was the name of the induction motor developed at the laboratory?
A1:    Tesla

Q2:    What was the name of the principle Tesla claimed to have originated in 1882?
A2:    polyphase current

Q3:    When was the first electric motor developed?
A3:    May 1888

-------------------data 77---------------------
context:
In 1888, the editor of Electrical World magazine, Thomas Commerford Martin (a friend and publicist), arranged for Tesla to demonstrate his alternating current system, including his induction motor, at the American Institute of Electrical Engineers (now IEEE). Engineers working for the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company reported to George Westinghouse that Tesla had a viable AC motor and related power system — something for which Westinghouse had been trying to secure patents. Westinghouse looked into getting a patent on a similar commutator-less, rotating magnetic field-based induction motor presented in a paper in March 1888 by the Italian physicist Galileo Ferraris, but decided Tesla's patent would probably control the market.

Q1:    What was the name of the publisher of Electrical World magazine?
A1:    Thomas Commerford Martin

Q2:    What company reported to George Westinghouse that Tesla had a viable AC motor and related power
A2:    Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company

Q3:    What year did Galileo Ferraris present a patent for a commutator
A3:    1888

-------------------data 78---------------------
context:
In July 1888, Brown and Peck negotiated a licensing deal with George Westinghouse for Tesla's polyphase induction motor and transformer designs for $60,000 in cash and stock and a royalty of $2.50 per AC horsepower produced by each motor. Westinghouse also hired Tesla for one year for the large fee of $2,000 ($52,700 in today's dollars) per month to be a consultant at the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company's Pittsburgh labs.

Q1:    What was the royalty paid for by each motor?
A1:    $2.50 per AC horsepower

Q2:    What was the fee per month for a consultant at the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing
A2:    $2,000 ($52,700 in today's dollars)

-------------------data 79---------------------
context:
During that year, Tesla worked in Pittsburgh, helping to create an alternating current system to power the city's streetcars. He found the time there frustrating because of conflicts between him and the other Westinghouse engineers over how best to implement AC power. Between them, they settled on a 60-cycle AC current system Tesla proposed (to match the working frequency of Tesla's motor), although they soon found that, since Tesla's induction motor could only run at a constant speed, it would not work for street cars. They ended up using a DC traction motor instead.

Q1:    Where did Tesla work?
A1:    Pittsburgh

Q2:    Why was the time between Tesla and other Westinghouse engineers frustrated?
A2:    conflicts

Q3:    What was the name of the current system that Tesla proposed to work?
A3:    60-cycle AC

Q4:    What was the name of the current system that Tesla used to power street cars?
A4:    DC traction motor

-------------------data 80---------------------
context:
Tesla's demonstration of his induction motor and Westinghouse's subsequent licensing of the patent, both in 1888, put Tesla firmly on the "AC" side of the so-called "War of Currents," an electrical distribution battle being waged between Thomas Edison and George Westinghouse that had been simmering since Westinghouse's first AC system in 1886 and had reached the point of all-out warfare by 1888. This started out as a competition between rival lighting systems with Edison holding all the patents for DC and the incandescent light and Westinghouse using his own patented AC system to power arc lights as well as incandescent lamps of a slightly different design to get around the Edison patent. The acquisition of a feasible AC motor gave Westinghouse a key patent in building a completely integrated AC system, but the financial strain of buying up patents and hiring the engineers needed to build it meant development of Tesla's motor had to be put on hold for a while. The competition resulted in Edison Machine Works pursuing AC development in 1890 and by 1892 Thomas Edison was no longer in control of his own company, which was consolidated into the conglomerate General Electric and converting to an AC delivery system at that point.

Q1:    What was the name of the electrical distribution battle between Thomas Edison and Westinghouse?
A1:    War of Currents

Q2:    What was the name of the first electric power system developed by Thomas Edison?
A2:    War of Currents

Q3:    What was the name of the first electric motor developed by Thomas Edison?
A3:    Tesla Machine Works

Q4:    What company was Thomas Edison in control of in 1890?
A4:    General Electric

-------------------data 81---------------------
context:
In 1893, George Westinghouse won the bid to light the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago with alternating current, beating out a General Electric bid by one million dollars. This World's Fair devoted a building to electrical exhibits. It was a key event in the history of AC power, as Westinghouse demonstrated the safety, reliability, and efficiency of a fully integrated alternating current system to the American public. At the Columbian Exposition, under a banner announcing the "Tesla Polyphase System", Tesla demonstrated a series of electrical effects previously performed throughout America and Europe,:76 included using high-voltage, high-frequency alternating current to light a wireless gas-discharge lamp.:79 An observer noted:

Q1:    How much money did George Westinghouse win in the 1893 World's Columbian Ex
A1:    one million dollars

Q2:    What was the purpose of the building at the 1893 World's Fair?
A2:    electrical exhibits

Q3:    What was the name of the event that marked the beginning of the electric power system?
A3:    Tesla Polyphase System

Q4:    What was the name of the system that Tesla demonstrated at the 1893 Expo?
A4:    Tesla Polyphase System

-------------------data 82---------------------
context:
In 1893 Richard Dean Adams, who headed up the Niagara Falls Cataract Construction Company sought Tesla's opinion on what system would be best to transmit power generated at the falls. Over several years there had been a series of proposals and open competitions on how best to utilize power generated by the falls with many systems being proposed by several US and European companies including two-phase and three-phase AC, high-voltage DC, and even compressed air. Adams pumped Tesla for information about the current state of all the competing systems. Tesla advised Adams that a two-phased system would be the most reliable and that there was a Westinghouse system to light incandescent bulbs using two-phase alternating current. Based on Tesla's advice and Westinghouse's demonstration that they could build a complete AC system at the Columbian Exposition, a contract for building a two-phase AC generating system at the Niagara Falls was awarded to Westinghouse Electric. A further contract to build the AC distribution system was awarded to General Electric.

Q1:    Who headed up the Niagara Falls Cataract Construction Company?
A1:    Richard Dean Adams

Q2:    What was one of the US and European companies that proposed a two-phase AC system?
A2:    Westinghouse

Q3:    Who was asked to build a two-phase AC system at the Niagara Falls?
A3:    Westinghouse Electric

Q4:    What was the name of the system that Westinghouse wanted to light incandescent bulbs
A4:    two-phase alternating current

Q5:    What was the name of the contract that was awarded to General Electric to build a power
A5:    AC distribution system

Q6:    What company was awarded a contract for building a two-phase AC generating system?
A6:    Westinghouse Electric

-------------------data 83---------------------
context:
The mid 1890s saw the conglomerate General Electric, backed by financier J. P. Morgan, involved in takeover attempts and patent battles with Westinghouse Electric. Although a patent-sharing agreement was signed between the two companies in 1896 Westinghouse was still cash-strapped from the financial warfare. To secure further loans, Westinghouse was forced to revisit Tesla's AC patent, which bankers considered a financial strain on the company (at that point Westinghouse had paid out an estimated $200,000 in licenses and royalties to Tesla, Brown, and Peck). In 1897, Westinghouse explained his financial difficulties to Tesla in stark terms, saying that if things continue the way they were he would no longer be in control of Westinghouse Electric and Tesla would have to "deal with the bankers" to try to collect future royalties. Westinghouse convinced Tesla to release his company from the licensing agreement over Tesla's AC patents in exchange for Westinghouse Electric purchasing the patents for a lump sum payment of $216,000; this provided Westinghouse a break from what, due to alternating current's rapid gain in popularity, had turned out to be an overly generous $2.50 per AC horsepower royalty.

Q1:    What was the name of the conglomerate General Electric backed by?
A1:    J. P. Morgan

Q2:    What year was a patent-sharing agreement signed between the two companies?
A2:    1896

Q3:    What was the estimated $200,000 in licenses and royalties to Tesla, Brown, and P
A3:    Peck

Q4:    What year did J. P. Morgan convince Tesla to release its patents?
A4:    1897

Q5:    What was the estimated value of the original patents purchased by Westinghouse Electric in exchange for
A5:    $216,000

-------------------data 84---------------------
context:
On 30 July 1891, at the age of 35, Tesla became a naturalized citizen of the United States, and established his South Fifth Avenue laboratory, and later another at 46 E. Houston Street, in New York. He lit electric lamps wirelessly at both locations, demonstrating the potential of wireless power transmission. In the same year, he patented the Tesla coil.

Q1:    What street is the intersection of the Tesla electric lamp?
A1:    46 E. Houston Street

Q2:    What was the name of the laboratory that he lit wirelessly at?
A2:    South Fifth Avenue

Q3:    What year did Tesla first use a Tesla coil?
A3:    1891

-------------------data 85---------------------
context:
Tesla served as a vice president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the forerunner (along with the Institute of Radio Engineers) of the modern-day IEEE, from 1892 to 1894.

Q1:    What was the name of the forerunner for the IEEE?
A1:    Institute of Radio Engineers

-------------------data 86---------------------
context:
Starting in 1894, Tesla began investigating what he referred to as radiant energy of "invisible" kinds after he had noticed damaged film in his laboratory in previous experiments (later identified as "Roentgen rays" or "X-Rays"). His early experiments were with Crookes tubes, a cold cathode electrical discharge tube. Soon after, much of Tesla's early research—hundreds of invention models, plans, notes, laboratory data, tools, photographs, valued at $50,000—was lost in the 5th Avenue laboratory fire of March 1895. Tesla is quoted by The New York Times as saying, "I am in too much grief to talk. What can I say?" Tesla may have inadvertently captured an X-ray image—predating, by a few weeks, Wilhelm Röntgen's December 1895 announcement of the discovery of x-rays—when he tried to photograph Mark Twain illuminated by a Geissler tube, an earlier type of gas discharge tube. The only thing captured in the image was the metal locking screw on the camera lens.:134

Q1:    What was the first name of the leak that Tesla began investigating after he noticed damaged film in
A1:    radiant energy of invisible kinds

Q2:    What type of discharge tube did Tesla experiment with?
A2:    Crookes tubes

Q3:    What was the location of the lab fire that occurred in March 1895?
A3:    5th Avenue

Q4:    What magazine quoted Tesla as saying "I am in too much grief to talk"?
A4:    The New York Times

Q5:    What did Wilhelm Röntgen say about the discovery of X-rays in December
A5:    predating

Q6:    What was the first X-ray image captured by Wilhelm Röntgen?
A6:    Mark Twain

Q7:    What is the only thing that Tesla captured the X-ray image?
A7:    metal locking screw on the camera lens

-------------------data 87---------------------
context:
In March 1896, after hearing of Wilhelm Röntgen's discovery of X-ray and X-ray imaging (radiography), Tesla proceeded to do his own experiments in X-ray imaging, developing a high energy single terminal vacuum tube of his own design that had no target electrode and that worked from the output of the Tesla Coil (the modern term for the phenomenon produced by this device is bremsstrahlung or braking radiation). In his research, Tesla devised several experimental setups to produce X-rays. Tesla held that, with his circuits, the "instrument will ... enable one to generate Roentgen rays of much greater power than obtainable with ordinary apparatus."

Q1:    What was the name of the device Tesla developed to produce X-rays?
A1:    bremsstrahlung or braking radiation

Q2:    What did Tesla design in order to produce X-rays?
A2:    experimental setups

Q3:    What did Tesla believe was the way a Roentgen rays could be generated by
A3:    much greater power than obtainable with ordinary apparatus

-------------------data 88---------------------
context:
Tesla noted the hazards of working with his circuit and single-node X-ray-producing devices. In his many notes on the early investigation of this phenomenon, he attributed the skin damage to various causes. He believed early on that damage to the skin was not caused by the Roentgen rays, but by the ozone generated in contact with the skin, and to a lesser extent, by nitrous acid. Tesla incorrectly believed that X-rays were longitudinal waves, such as those produced in waves in plasmas. These plasma waves can occur in force-free magnetic fields.

Q1:    What did Tesla believe was the dangers of working with?
A1:    circuit and single-node X-ray-producing devices

Q2:    What was the name of Tesla's early investigation into the issue?
A2:    Roentgen rays

Q3:    What was the lesser known cause of skin damage?
A3:    nitrous acid

Q4:    What was the ray produced in longitudinal waves in plasmas?
A4:    force-free magnetic fields

Q5:    What are the plasma waves produced in?
A5:    force-free magnetic fields

-------------------data 89---------------------
context:
At the beginning of 1893 Westinghouse engineer Benjamin Lamme had made great progress developing an efficient version of Tesla's induction motor and Westinghouse Electric started branding their complete polyphase phase AC system as the "Tesla Polyphase System", noting how they believed Tesla's patents gave them patent priority over other AC systems.

Q1:    What was the name of the AC system developed by Westinghouse Electric in 1893?
A1:    Tesla Polyphase System

-------------------data 90---------------------
context:
Tesla also explained the principles of the rotating magnetic field in an induction motor by demonstrating how to make a copper egg stand on end using a device he constructed known as the Egg of Columbus.

Q1:    What was the name of the device Tesla used to make a copper egg stand on end?
A1:    Egg of Columbus

-------------------data 91---------------------
context:
On 11 July 1934, the New York Herald Tribune published an article on Tesla, in which he recalled an event that would occasionally take place while experimenting with his single-electrode vacuum tubes; a minute particle would break off the cathode, pass out of the tube, and physically strike him. "Tesla said he could feel a sharp stinging pain where it entered his body, and again at the place where it passed out." In comparing these particles with the bits of metal projected by his "electric gun," Tesla said, "The particles in the beam of force ... will travel much faster than such particles ... and they will travel in concentrations."

Q1:    What did the New York Herald Tribune say about Tesla?
A1:    "The particles in the beam of force... will travel much faster than such particles...

Q2:    What did Tesla describe as if he could feel a sharp stinging
A2:    pain

Q3:    What did Tesla say about particles in the beam of force?
A3:    will travel much faster than such particles... and they will travel in concentrations

-------------------data 92---------------------
context:
Tesla's theories on the possibility of the transmission by radio waves go back as far as lectures and demonstrations in 1893 in St. Louis, Missouri, the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and the National Electric Light Association. Tesla's demonstrations and principles were written about widely through various media outlets. Many devices such as the Tesla Coil were used in the further development of radio.

Q1:    What was the name of the Franklin Institute?
A1:    Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Q2:    What were demonstrations and principles written about?
A2:    widely

Q3:    What device was used in the development of radio?
A3:    the Tesla Coil

-------------------data 93---------------------
context:
In 1898, Tesla demonstrated a radio-controlled boat—which he dubbed "teleautomaton"—to the public during an electrical exhibition at Madison Square Garden. The crowd that witnessed the demonstration made outrageous claims about the workings of the boat, such as magic, telepathy, and being piloted by a trained monkey hidden inside. Tesla tried to sell his idea to the U.S. military as a type of radio-controlled torpedo, but they showed little interest. Remote radio control remained a novelty until World War I and afterward, when a number of countries used it in military programs. Tesla took the opportunity to further demonstrate "Teleautomatics" in an address to a meeting of the Commercial Club in Chicago, while he was travelling to Colorado Springs, on 13 May 1899.

Q1:    What was the name of the boat Tesla showed to the public in 1898?
A1:    teleautomaton

Q2:    What were the names of the trained monkeys hidden inside the boat?
A2:    magic, telepathy, and being piloted

Q3:    What did Tesla try to sell the radio to the military?
A3:    torpedo

Q4:    When did World War I use radio control?
A4:    afterward

Q5:    Where did Tesla go to during the presentation of "Teleautomatics"?
A5:    Colorado Springs

-------------------data 94---------------------
context:
In 1900, Tesla was granted patents for a "system of transmitting electrical energy" and "an electrical transmitter." When Guglielmo Marconi made his famous first-ever transatlantic radio transmission in 1901, Tesla quipped that it was done with 17 Tesla patents, though there is little to support this claim. This was the beginning of years of patent battles over radio with Tesla's patents being upheld in 1903, followed by a reverse decision in favor of Marconi in 1904. In 1943, a Supreme Court of the United States decision restored the prior patents of Tesla, Oliver Lodge, and John Stone. The court declared that their decision had no bearing on Marconi's claim as the first to achieve radio transmission, just that since Marconi's claim to certain patents were questionable, he could not claim infringement on those same patents (there are claims the high court was trying to nullify a World War I claim against the U.S. government by the Marconi Company via simply restoring Tesla's prior patent).

Q1:    What was the name of the first transatlantic radio transmission that Tesla was granted in 1900?
A1:    Guglielmo Marconi

Q2:    What patent was reaffirmed in 1903?
A2:    patents

Q3:    When was Marconi's reverse decision brought in favor of him?
A3:    1904

Q4:    Who restored the prior patents of Tesla, Oliver Lodge, and John Stone in 1943?
A4:    a Supreme Court of the United States

Q5:    Who restored the prior patents of Tesla, Oliver Lodge, and John Stone?
A5:    a Supreme Court of the United States

-------------------data 95---------------------
context:
On 17 May 1899, Tesla moved to Colorado Springs, where he would have room for his high-voltage, high-frequency experiments; his lab was located near Foote Ave. and Kiowa St. He chose this location because the polyphase alternating current power distribution system had been introduced there and he had associates who were willing to give him all the power he needed without charging for it. Upon his arrival, he told reporters that he was conducting wireless telegraphy experiments, transmitting signals from Pikes Peak to Paris.[citation needed] The 1978 book Colorado Springs Notes, 1899–1900 contains descriptions of Tesla's experiments. On 15 June 1899, Tesla performed his first experiments at his Colorado Springs lab; he recorded his initial spark length at five inches long, but very thick and noisy.

Q1:    What was the name of Tesla's lab in Colorado Springs?
A1:    Colorado Springs Notes

Q2:    What was the name of the book that contained descriptions of Tesla's experiments?
A2:    Colorado Springs Notes

Q3:    How long was Tesla's initial spark when he performed his first experiments at Colorado Springs?
A3:    five inches long

-------------------data 96---------------------
context:
Tesla investigated atmospheric electricity, observing lightning signals via his receivers. He stated that he observed stationary waves during this time. The great distances and the nature of what Tesla was detecting from lightning storms confirmed his belief that the earth had a resonant frequency.

Q1:    What did Tesla observe via his receivers?
A1:    lightning signals

Q2:    What did Tesla believe was observing during this time?
A2:    stationary waves

Q3:    What did Tesla believe was the earth's response to lightning storms?
A3:    a resonant frequency

-------------------data 97---------------------
context:
He produced artificial lightning, with discharges consisting of millions of volts and up to 135 feet long. Thunder from the released energy was heard 15 miles away in Cripple Creek, Colorado. People walking along the street observed sparks jumping between their feet and the ground. Sparks sprang from water line taps when touched. Light bulbs within 100 feet of the lab glowed even when turned off. Horses in a livery stable bolted from their stalls after receiving shocks through their metal shoes. Butterflies were electrified, swirling in circles with blue halos of St. Elmo's fire around their wings.

Q1:    How long were the discharges in volts?
A1:    135 feet long

Q2:    Where was Thunder heard from the lightning heard?
A2:    Cripple Creek, Colorado

Q3:    What spark slowed down when he touched them?
A3:    water line taps

Q4:    What spark slowed when he touched the light bulb?
A4:    Sparks

Q5:    How long were light bulbs pushed when turned off?
A5:    100 feet

Q6:    What was bolted from the stalls after the shocks were received?
A6:    horses

Q7:    What swam around the wings of St. Elmo's wings?
A7:    blue halos

-------------------data 98---------------------
context:
While experimenting, Tesla inadvertently faulted a power station generator, causing a power outage. In August 1917, Tesla explained what had happened in The Electrical Experimenter: "As an example of what has been done with several hundred kilowatts of high frequency energy liberated, it was found that the dynamos in a power house six miles away were repeatedly burned out, due to the powerful high frequency currents set up in them, and which caused heavy sparks to jump through the windings and destroy the insulation!"

Q1:    What caused a power outage?
A1:    Tesla faulted a power station generator

Q2:    What year did Tesla explain what happened to a power station generator?
A2:    1917

-------------------data 99---------------------
context:
During his time at his lab, Tesla observed unusual signals from his receiver which he concluded may be communications from another planet. He mentioned them in a letter to reporter Julian Hawthorne at the Philadelphia North American on 8 December 1899 and in a December 1900 letter about possible discoveries in the new century to the Red Cross Society where he referred to messages "from another world" that read "1... 2... 3...". Reporters treated it as a sensational story and jumped to the conclusion Tesla was hearing signals from Mars. He expanded on the signals he heard in a 9 February 1901 Collier's Weekly article "Talking With Planets" where he said it had not been immediately apparent to him that he was hearing "intelligently controlled signals" and that the signals could come from Mars, Venus, or other planets. It has been hypothesized that he may have intercepted Marconi's European experiments in July 1899—Marconi may have transmitted the letter S (dot/dot/dot) in a naval demonstration, the same three impulses that Tesla hinted at hearing in Colorado—or signals from another experimenter in wireless transmission.

Q1:    What was the conclusion that Tesla was hearing signals from another planet?
A1:    "1... 2... 3..."

Q2:    Who did the reporter speculate Tesla was hearing signals from?
A2:    Mars

Q3:    What did the Red Cross say was the result of the letter that stated that Tesla was hearing signals
A3:    "intelligently controlled signals"

Q4:    What did the Red Cross say was the result of the letter that stated that Tesla was hearing signals
A4:    "intelligently controlled signals"

Q5:    What did the reporter describe as a sensational story?
A5:    1... 2... 3..."

Q6:    What was the name of the article that stated that Tesla was hearing signals from other planets?
A6:    Talking With Planets

Q7:    What was the letter S that Marconi sent in a naval demonstration?
A7:    the same three impulses that Tesla hinted at hearing in Colorado

-------------------data 100---------------------
context:
In 1899, John Jacob Astor IV invested $100,000 for Tesla to further develop and produce a new lighting system. Instead, Tesla used the money to fund his Colorado Springs experiments.

Q1:    How much money did John Jacob Astor IV invest for Tesla in 1899?
A1:    $100,000

Q2:    What was the money Tesla invested for his Colorado Springs experiments?
A2:    $100,000

-------------------data 101---------------------
context:
On 7 January 1900, Tesla left Colorado Springs.[citation needed] His lab was torn down in 1904, and its contents were sold two years later to satisfy a debt.

Q1:    When did Tesla leave Colorado Springs?
A1:    7 January 1900

-------------------data 102---------------------
context:
The Colorado experiments had prepared Tesla for the establishment of the trans-Atlantic wireless telecommunications facility known as Wardenclyffe near Shoreham, Long Island.

Q1:    What was the name of the telecommunications facility called in Long Island?
A1:    Wardenclyffe

-------------------data 103---------------------
context:
Tesla later approached Morgan to ask for more funds to build a more powerful transmitter. When asked where all the money had gone, Tesla responded by saying that he was affected by the Panic of 1901, which he (Morgan) had caused. Morgan was shocked by the reminder of his part in the stock market crash and by Tesla's breach of contract by asking for more funds. Tesla wrote another plea to Morgan, but it was also fruitless. Morgan still owed Tesla money on the original agreement, and Tesla had been facing foreclosure even before construction of the tower began.

Q1:    Who did Tesla ask for funds to build a more powerful transmitter?
A1:    Morgan

Q2:    What year did Morgan Morgan tell Tesla was not ready for a tower?
A2:    1901

Q3:    What event did Morgan Morgan be shocked by?
A3:    the reminder of his part in the stock market crash and by Tesla's breach of contract by

Q4:    Who did Tesla write a plea to?
A4:    Morgan

Q5:    What was the original agreement with Morgan?
A5:    Tesla money

-------------------data 104---------------------
context:
In December 1901, Marconi successfully transmitted the letter S from England to Newfoundland, terminating Tesla's relationship with Morgan.[improper synthesis?] Over the next five years, Tesla wrote over 50 letters to Morgan, pleading for and demanding additional funding to complete the construction of Wardenclyffe. Tesla continued the project for another nine months. The tower was erected to its full 187 feet (57 m). In July 1903, Tesla wrote to Morgan that in addition to wireless communication, Wardenclyffe would be capable of wireless transmission of electric power. On 14 October 1904, Morgan finally replied through his secretary, stating, "It will be impossible for [me] to do anything in the matter," after Tesla had written to Morgan when the financier was meeting with the Archbishop of Canterbury in an attempt to appeal to his Christian spirit.

Q1:    Who ended Tesla's relationship with Morgan?
A1:    Marconi

Q2:    How many letters did Tesla write to Morgan?
A2:    50

Q3:    How long did Tesla wait to complete the construction?
A3:    nine months

Q4:    How large was the tower erected?
A4:    187 feet

Q5:    Who did Tesla write to Morgan in July 1903?
A5:    the financial

Q6:    Who did Morgan reply through the letter in October 1904?
A6:    his secretary

-------------------data 105---------------------
context:
On his 50th birthday in 1906, Tesla demonstrated his 200 horsepower (150 kilowatts) 16,000 rpm bladeless turbine. During 1910–1911 at the Waterside Power Station in New York, several of his bladeless turbine engines were tested at 100–5,000 hp.

Q1:    How many rpm bladeless turbine did Tesla demonstrate at the Waterside Power Station?
A1:    16,000

Q2:    Where were his bladeless turbine engines tested?
A2:    Waterside Power Station

-------------------data 106---------------------
context:
Tesla invented a steam-powered mechanical oscillator—Tesla's oscillator. While experimenting with mechanical oscillators at his Houston Street lab, Tesla allegedly generated a resonance of several buildings. As the speed grew, it is said that the machine oscillated at the resonance frequency of his own building and, belatedly realizing the danger, he was forced to use a sledge hammer to terminate the experiment, just as the police arrived.:162–164 In February 1912, an article—"Nikola Tesla, Dreamer" by Allan L. Benson—was published in World Today, in which an artist's illustration appears showing the entire earth cracking in half with the caption, "Tesla claims that in a few weeks he could set the earth's crust into such a state of vibration that it would rise and fall hundreds of feet and practically destroy civilization. A continuation of this process would, he says, eventually split the earth in two."

Q1:    What was the name of the mechanical oscillator Tesla invented?
A1:    Tesla's oscillator

Q2:    What was the name of the mechanical oscillator Tesla used to work?
A2:    Tesla's oscillator

Q3:    What was the name of the mechanical oscillator Tesla created?
A3:    Tesla's oscillator

Q4:    How many times would the earth split in two?
A4:    two

-------------------data 107---------------------
context:
Tesla theorized that the application of electricity to the brain enhanced intelligence. In 1912, he crafted "a plan to make dull students bright by saturating them unconsciously with electricity," wiring the walls of a schoolroom and, "saturating [the schoolroom] with infinitesimal electric waves vibrating at high frequency. The whole room will thus, Mr. Tesla claims, be converted into a health-giving and stimulating electromagnetic field or 'bath.'" The plan was, at least provisionally approved by then superintendent of New York City schools, William H. Maxwell.

Q1:    What did Tesla believe was enhanced by the use of electricity in the brain?
A1:    intelligence

Q2:    What year did Tesla create a plan to make dull students bright?
A2:    1912

Q3:    What is the name of the person who approved the plan?
A3:    William H. Maxwell

Q4:    Who was the superintendent of New York schools?
A4:    William H. Maxwell

-------------------data 108---------------------
context:
Before World War I, Tesla sought overseas investors. After the war started, Tesla lost the funding he was receiving from his patents in European countries. Eventually, he sold Wardenclyffe for $20,000 ($472,500 in today's dollars). In 1917, around the time that the Wardenclyffe Tower was demolished by Boldt to make the land a more viable real estate asset, Tesla received AIEE's highest honor, the Edison Medal.

Q1:    Who did Tesla seek investment from before the war?
A1:    overseas investors

Q2:    What was the amount of funding he was receiving from his patents from European countries that ended
A2:    $20,000 ($472,500 in today's dollars)

Q3:    How much money did Tesla sell for?
A3:    $20,000 ($472,500 in today's dollars)

Q4:    What was the name of the highest honor for Tesla?
A4:    the Edison Medal

-------------------data 109---------------------
context:
In the August 1917 edition of the magazine Electrical Experimenter Tesla postulated that electricity could be used to locate submarines via using the reflection of an "electric ray" of "tremendous frequency," with the signal being viewed on a fluorescent screen (a system that has been noted to have a superficial resemblance to modern radar). Tesla was incorrect in his assumption that high frequency radio waves would penetrate water but Émile Girardeau, who helped develop France's first radar system in the 1930s, noted in 1953 that Tesla's general speculation that a very strong high frequency signal would be needed was correct stating "(Tesla) was prophesying or dreaming, since he had at his disposal no means of carrying them out, but one must add that if he was dreaming, at least he was dreaming correctly.":266

Q1:    What was the term for a fluorescent screen for the signal in the magazine?
A1:    a system that has been noted to have a superficial resemblance to modern

Q2:    Who was the founder of the radar system that Tesla was not capable of carrying?
A2:    Émile Girardeau

-------------------data 110---------------------
context:
On 6 November 1915, a Reuters news agency report from London had the 1915 Nobel Prize in Physics awarded to Thomas Edison and Nikola Tesla; however, on 15 November, a Reuters story from Stockholm stated the prize that year was being awarded to Sir William Henry Bragg and William Lawrence Bragg "for their services in the analysis of crystal structure by means of X-rays.":245 There were unsubstantiated rumors at the time that Tesla and/or Edison had refused the prize.:245 The Nobel Foundation said, "Any rumor that a person has not been given a Nobel Prize because he has made known his intention to refuse the reward is ridiculous"; a recipient could only decline a Nobel Prize after he is announced a winner.:245

Q1:    Who was given the Nobel Prize for his services in the analysis of crystal structure by means of
A1:    Sir William Henry Bragg and William Lawrence Bragg

-------------------data 111---------------------
context:
There have been subsequent claims by Tesla biographers that Edison and Tesla were the original recipients and that neither was given the award because of their animosity toward each other; that each sought to minimize the other's achievements and right to win the award; that both refused ever to accept the award if the other received it first; that both rejected any possibility of sharing it; and even that a wealthy Edison refused it to keep Tesla from getting the $20,000 prize money.:245

Q1:    Why did the biographers claim Edison and Tesla were the original recipients?
A1:    animosity toward each other

-------------------data 112---------------------
context:
In the years after these rumors, neither Tesla nor Edison won the prize (although Edison did receive one of 38 possible bids in 1915 and Tesla did receive one of 38 possible bids in 1937).

Q1:    What year did Tesla receive one of 38 possible bids?
A1:    1937

-------------------data 113---------------------
context:
In 1928, Tesla received his last patent, U.S. Patent 1,655,114, for a biplane capable of taking off vertically (VTOL aircraft) and then be "gradually tilted through manipulation of the elevator devices" in flight until it was flying like a conventional plane. Tesla thought the plane would sell for less than $1,000.:251 Although the aircraft was probably impractical, it may be the earliest known design for what became the tiltrotor/tilt-wing concept as well as the earliest proposal for the use of turbine engines in rotor aircraft.[improper synthesis?]

Q1:    What was the name of the last patent for a biplane that could take off vertical
A1:    U.S. Patent 1,655,114

Q2:    What was the earliest known design for a turbine engine?
A2:    tiltrotor/tilt-wing concept

-------------------data 114---------------------
context:
Starting in 1934, the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company began paying Tesla $125 per month as well as paying his rent at the Hotel New Yorker, expenses the Company would pay for the rest of Tesla's life. Accounts on how this came about vary. Several sources say Westinghouse was worried about potential bad publicity surrounding the impoverished conditions their former star inventor was living under. It has been described as being couched in the form of a "consulting fee" to get around Tesla's aversion to accept charity, or by one biographer (Marc Seifer), as a type of unspecified settlement.

Q1:    What was the cost per month for a Tesla electric & Manufacturing Company?
A1:    $125

Q2:    What was the name of the company that began paying Tesla $125 per month?
A2:    Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company

Q3:    What was the name of the former star inventor who was not interested in the conditions that could happen
A3:    Westinghouse

Q4:    What is the name of the biographer who wrote the description of the "consulting fee"
A4:    Marc Seifer

-------------------data 115---------------------
context:
In 1935, in an annual birthday celebration interview, Tesla announced a method of transmitting mechanical energy with minimal loss over any terrestrial distance, a related new means of communication, and a method of accurately determining the location of underground mineral deposits.

Q1:    What year did Tesla announce a method of transmitting mechanical energy?
A1:    1935

-------------------data 116---------------------
context:
In the fall of 1937, after midnight one night, Tesla left the Hotel New Yorker to make his regular commute to the cathedral and the library to feed the pigeons. While crossing a street a couple of blocks from the hotel, Tesla was unable to dodge a moving taxicab and was thrown heavily to the ground. Tesla's back was severely wrenched and three of his ribs were broken in the accident (the full extent of his injuries will never be known; Tesla refused to consult a doctor—an almost lifelong custom). Tesla didn't raise any question as to who was at fault and refused medical aid, only asking to be taken to his hotel via cab. Tesla was bedridden for some months and was unable to continue feeding pigeons from his window; soon, they failed to come. In early 1938, Tesla was able to get up. He at once resumed the pigeon-feeding walks on a much more limited scale, but frequently had a messenger act for him.

Q1:    What city did Tesla leave to feed the pigeons?
A1:    the cathedral

Q2:    What part of Tesla's back was severely dragged?
A2:    ribs

Q3:    How many of Tesla's ribs were broken?
A3:    three

Q4:    What did Tesla want to be taken to?
A4:    his hotel via cab

Q5:    How long was Tesla bedridden?
A5:    months

Q6:    What was the name of the pigeon feeding walk that Tesla had for him?
A6:    messenger act

Q7:    What was the name of the messenger act for Tesla?
A7:    pigeon-feeding walks

-------------------data 117---------------------
context:
Later in life, Tesla made claims concerning a "teleforce" weapon after studying the Van de Graaff generator. The press variably referred to it as a "peace ray" or death ray. Tesla described the weapon as capable of being used against ground-based infantry or for anti-aircraft purposes.

Q1:    What was the name of the weapon used by Tesla?
A1:    teleforce

Q2:    What was the name of the weapon used by the press?
A2:    peace ray

Q3:    What was the name of the weapon used by Tesla?
A3:    teleforce

-------------------data 118---------------------
context:
In 1937, at a luncheon in his honor concerning the death ray, Tesla stated, "But it is not an experiment ... I have built, demonstrated and used it. Only a little time will pass before I can give it to the world." His records indicate that the device is based on a narrow stream of small tungsten pellets that are accelerated via high voltage (by means akin to his magnifying transformer).

Q1:    What did Tesla say about the device in 1937?
A1:    "But it is not an experiment... I have built, demonstrated and used it. Only

Q2:    What is the name of the device Tesla used?
A2:    tungsten pellets

Q3:    How long will it take to get the device to the world?
A3:    a little time

Q4:    What is the accelerated tungsten pellets used to charge the device?
A4:    high voltage

-------------------data 119---------------------
context:
During the same year, Tesla wrote a treatise, The Art of Projecting Concentrated Non-dispersive Energy through the Natural Media, concerning charged particle beam weapons. Tesla published the document in an attempt to expound on the technical description of a "superweapon that would put an end to all war." This treatise is currently in the Nikola Tesla Museum archive in Belgrade. It describes an open-ended vacuum tube with a gas jet seal that allows particles to exit, a method of charging particles to millions of volts, and a method of creating and directing non-dispersive particle streams (through electrostatic repulsion). Tesla tried to interest the US War Department, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, and Yugoslavia in the device.

Q1:    What was the name of the treatise that Tesla wrote in the year it was about charged
A1:    The Art of Projecting Concentrated Non-dispersive Energy

Q2:    What was the purpose of the treatise?
A2:    The Art of Projecting Concentrated Non-dispersive Energy

Q3:    Where is the first place the treatise is located?
A3:    in Belgrade

Q4:    What is the method of charging particles to extinguishing the vacuum tube?
A4:    electrostatic repulsion

Q5:    Who did Tesla try to interest in the device?
A5:    US War Department, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, and Yugoslavia

-------------------data 120---------------------
context:
During the period in which the negotiations were being conducted, Tesla said that efforts had been made to steal the invention. His room had been entered and his papers had been scrutinized, but the thieves, or spies, left empty-handed. He said that there was no danger that his invention could be stolen, for he had at no time committed any part of it to paper; the blueprint for the teleforce weapon was all in his mind.

Q1:    What was the name of the person who had been in the room where his papers were entered?
A1:    Tesla

Q2:    What was left empty-handed about the theft of the invention?
A2:    spies

Q3:    What was in Tesla's mind when he said there was no danger of the theft of
A3:    blueprint for the teleforce weapon

-------------------data 121---------------------
context:
On 7 January 1943, at the age of 86, Tesla died alone in room 3327 of the New Yorker Hotel. His body was later found by maid Alice Monaghan after she had entered Tesla's room, ignoring the "do not disturb" sign that Tesla had placed on his door two days earlier. Assistant medical examiner H.W. Wembly examined the body and ruled that the cause of death had been coronary thrombosis. Tesla's remains were taken to the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home at Madison Ave. and 81st St. A long-time friend and supporter of Tesla, Hugo Gernsback, commissioned a sculptor to create a death mask, now displayed in the Nikola Tesla Museum.

Q1:    What was the name of the person who died alone at the time of his death?
A1:    Tesla

Q2:    Who later discovered Tesla's body?
A2:    Alice Monaghan

Q3:    What was the cause of death?
A3:    coronary thrombosis

Q4:    Where were Tesla's remains taken?
A4:    Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home

-------------------data 122---------------------
context:
Two days later, the FBI ordered the Alien Property Custodian to seize Tesla's belongings, even though Tesla was an American citizen. Tesla's entire estate from the Hotel New Yorker and other New York City hotels was transported to the Manhattan Storage and Warehouse Company under the Office of Alien Property (OAP) seal. John G. Trump, a professor at M.I.T. and a well-known electrical engineer serving as a technical aide to the National Defense Research Committee, was called in to analyze the Tesla items in OAP custody. After a three-day investigation, Trump's report concluded that there was nothing which would constitute a hazard in unfriendly hands, stating:

Q1:    What was the name of the person who was ordered to take Tesla's belongings?
A1:    Alien Property Custodian

Q2:    What was the name of the company that transported Tesla's belongings to?
A2:    Manhattan Storage and Warehouse Company

Q3:    Who was a technical aide to the National Defense Research Committee?
A3:    John G. Trump

Q4:    What was the name of the person who examined Tesla's belongings?
A4:    John G. Trump

-------------------data 123---------------------
context:
On 10 January 1943, New York City mayor Fiorello La Guardia read a eulogy written by Slovene-American author Louis Adamic live over the WNYC radio while violin pieces "Ave Maria" and "Tamo daleko" were played in the background. On 12 January, two thousand people attended a state funeral for Tesla at the Cathedral of Saint John the Divine. After the funeral, Tesla's body was taken to the Ferncliff Cemetery in Ardsley, New York, where it was later cremated. The following day, a second service was conducted by prominent priests in the Trinity Chapel (today's Serbian Orthodox Cathedral of Saint Sava) in New York City.

Q1:    Who wrote the eulogy?
A1:    Fiorello La Guardia

Q2:    How many people attended a state funeral for Tesla?
A2:    two thousand

Q3:    Where was the Tesla's body cremated?
A3:    Ferncliff Cemetery in Ardsley, New York

Q4:    Where was a second service held?
A4:    Trinity Chapel

-------------------data 124---------------------
context:
In 1952, following pressure from Tesla's nephew, Sava Kosanović, Tesla's entire estate was shipped to Belgrade in 80 trunks marked N.T. In 1957, Kosanović's secretary Charlotte Muzar transported Tesla's ashes from the United States to Belgrade. The ashes are displayed in a gold-plated sphere on a marble pedestal in the Nikola Tesla Museum.

Q1:    Who was the secretary of Tesla?
A1:    Charlotte Muzar

Q2:    Where are the ashes displayed?
A2:    a gold-plated sphere on a marble pedestal in the Nikola Tesla Museum.

-------------------data 125---------------------
context:
Tesla obtained around 300 patents worldwide for his inventions. Some of Tesla's patents are not accounted for, and various sources have discovered some that have lain hidden in patent archives. There are a minimum of 278 patents issued to Tesla in 26 countries that have been accounted for. Many of Tesla's patents were in the United States, Britain, and Canada, but many other patents were approved in countries around the globe.:62 Many inventions developed by Tesla were not put into patent protection.

Q1:    How many patents were created by Tesla in the United States?
A1:    278

Q2:    What are some of Tesla's patents not accounted for?
A2:    278

Q3:    How many patents were there to Tesla in 26 countries?
A3:    278

Q4:    What countries were patents not put into?
A4:    United States, Britain, and Canada

-------------------data 126---------------------
context:
Tesla worked every day from 9:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. or later, with dinner from exactly 8:10 p.m., at Delmonico's restaurant and later the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. Tesla would telephone his dinner order to the headwaiter, who also could be the only one to serve him. "The meal was required to be ready at eight o'clock ... He dined alone, except on the rare occasions when he would give a dinner to a group to meet his social obligations. Tesla would then resume his work, often until 3:00 a.m.":283, 286

Q1:    What was the date of his dinner order?
A1:    8:10

Q2:    Who did Tesla call his dinner order to?
A2:    headwaiter

Q3:    When did Tesla leave the restaurant?
A3:    3:00 a.m.

Q4:    What was required when Tesla did a dinner with him?
A4:    to be ready at eight o'clock

Q5:    What was the number of hours of his work done when Tesla left the door to a person
A5:    3:00

-------------------data 127---------------------
context:
For exercise, Tesla walked between 8 to 10 miles per day. He squished his toes one hundred times for each foot every night, saying that it stimulated his brain cells.

Q1:    How many miles per day did Tesla walk?
A1:    8 to 10

Q2:    How often did Tesla walk for each foot?
A2:    one hundred times

-------------------data 128---------------------
context:
In an interview with newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane, Tesla said that he did not believe in telepathy, stating, "Suppose I made up my mind to murder you," he said, "In a second you would know it. Now, isn't that wonderful? By what process does the mind get at all this?" In the same interview, Tesla said that he believed that all fundamental laws could be reduced to one.

Q1:    Who did Tesla tell in an interview that he believed that all fundamental laws could be reduced to
A1:    Arthur Brisbane

Q2:    What was the term for "suppression"?
A2:    telepathy

Q3:    What was the process in which the mind gets to murder you?
A3:    telepathy

Q4:    What did Tesla believe would be reduced to one?
A4:    fundamental laws

-------------------data 129---------------------
context:
Near the end of his life, Tesla walked to the park every day to feed the pigeons and even brought injured ones into his hotel room to nurse back to health. He said that he had been visited by a specific injured white pigeon daily. Tesla spent over $2,000, including building a device that comfortably supported her so her bones could heal, to fix her broken wing and leg. Tesla stated,

Q1:    What did Tesla walk to the park every day to feed?
A1:    the pigeons

Q2:    What did Tesla tell he was being visited by a pigeon daily?
A2:    injured white pigeon daily

Q3:    How much money did Tesla spend to fix her broken wing and leg?
A3:    over $2,000

Q4:    What did Tesla say about the pigeons' health?
A4:    that he had been visited by a specific injured white pigeon daily

-------------------data 130---------------------
context:
Tesla was 6 feet 2 inches (1.88 m) tall and weighed 142 pounds (64 kg), with almost no weight variance from 1888 to about 1926.:292 He was an elegant, stylish figure in New York City, meticulous in his grooming, clothing, and regimented in his daily activities.

Q1:    How large was Tesla when he was 1926?
A1:    6 feet 2 inches

-------------------data 131---------------------
context:
Tesla read many works, memorizing complete books, and supposedly possessed a photographic memory.:33 He was a polyglot, speaking eight languages: Serbo-Croatian, Czech, English, French, German, Hungarian, Italian, and Latin.:282 Tesla related in his autobiography that he experienced detailed moments of inspiration. During his early life, Tesla was repeatedly stricken with illness. He suffered a peculiar affliction in which blinding flashes of light would appear before his eyes, often accompanied by visions.:33 Often, the visions were linked to a word or idea he might have come across; at other times they would provide the solution to a particular problem he had encountered. Just by hearing the name of an item, he would be able to envision it in realistic detail.:33 Tesla would visualize an invention in his mind with extreme precision, including all dimensions, before moving to the construction stage, a technique sometimes known as picture thinking. He typically did not make drawings by hand but worked from memory. Beginning in his childhood, Tesla had frequent flashbacks to events that had happened previously in his life.:33

Q1:    What was the name of the polyglot Tesla spoke in his autobiography?
A1:    :282 Tesla

Q2:    What was Tesla's early life a bit irritable?
A2:    illness

Q3:    What was the problem that Tesla had to endure?
A3:    blinding flashes of light would appear before his eyes, often accompanied by visions

Q4:    What was the technique that Tesla visualized in his mind?
A4:    picture thinking

Q5:    What was the technique that Tesla did not make drawings by hand but instead worked?
A5:    picture thinking

Q6:    What happened to Tesla when he was young?
A6:    repeatedly stricken with illness

-------------------data 132---------------------
context:
During his second year of study at Graz, Tesla developed a passion for (and became very proficient at) billiards, chess and card-playing, sometimes spending more than 48 hours in a stretch at a gaming table.:43, 301 On one occasion at his laboratory, Tesla worked for a period of 84 hours without sleep or rest.:208 Kenneth Swezey, a journalist whom Tesla had befriended, confirmed that Tesla rarely slept. Swezey recalled one morning when Tesla called him at 3 a.m.: "I was sleeping in my room like one dead ... Suddenly, the telephone ring awakened me ... [Tesla] spoke animatedly, with pauses, [as he] ... work[ed] out a problem, comparing one theory to another, commenting; and when he felt he had arrived at the solution, he suddenly closed the telephone."

Q1:    What was the name of the journalist who spoke at 3 a.m.?
A1:    Kenneth Swezey

Q2:    What did the phone ring wake up?
A2:    like one dead

Q3:    What did the telephone ring wake me?
A3:    ...

Q4:    What did the person who spoke animatedly about the problem that happened to Tesla?
A4:    [Tesla]

-------------------data 133---------------------
context:
Tesla never married; he said his chastity was very helpful to his scientific abilities.:33 However, toward the end of his life, he told a reporter, "Sometimes I feel that by not marrying, I made too great a sacrifice to my work ..." There have been numerous accounts of women vying for Tesla's affection, even some madly in love with him.[citation needed] Tesla, though polite and soft-spoken, did not have any known relationships.

Q1:    What did Tesla say was helpful to his scientific abilities?
A1:    his chastity

Q2:    What did many women vying for?
A2:    affection

-------------------data 134---------------------
context:
Tesla was asocial and prone to seclude himself with his work. However, when he did engage in a social life, many people spoke very positively and admiringly of Tesla. Robert Underwood Johnson described him as attaining a "distinguished sweetness, sincerity, modesty, refinement, generosity, and force." His loyal secretary, Dorothy Skerrit, wrote: "his genial smile and nobility of bearing always denoted the gentlemanly characteristics that were so ingrained in his soul." Tesla's friend, Julian Hawthorne, wrote, "seldom did one meet a scientist or engineer who was also a poet, a philosopher, an appreciator of fine music, a linguist, and a connoisseur of food and drink.":80

Q1:    What was Tesla's profession?
A1:    poet

Q2:    Who described Tesla as attaining a distinguished sweetness, sincerity, modesty, refine
A2:    Robert Underwood Johnson

Q3:    Who described Tesla as attaining a distinguished sweetness, sincerity, modesty, refine
A3:    Robert Underwood Johnson

Q4:    Who was Tesla's loyal secretary?
A4:    Dorothy Skerrit

Q5:    Who was a linguist who was a lover of fine music?
A5:    Julian Hawthorne

-------------------data 135---------------------
context:
Tesla was a good friend of Francis Marion Crawford, Robert Underwood Johnson, Stanford White, Fritz Lowenstein, George Scherff, and Kenneth Swezey. In middle age, Tesla became a close friend of Mark Twain; they spent a lot of time together in his lab and elsewhere. Twain notably described Tesla's induction motor invention as "the most valuable patent since the telephone." In the late 1920s, Tesla also befriended George Sylvester Viereck, a poet, writer, mystic, and later, a Nazi propagandist. Tesla occasionally attended dinner parties held by Viereck and his wife.

Q1:    Who was a good friend of Tesla?
A1:    Francis Marion Crawford

Q2:    Who was a close friend of Tesla?
A2:    Mark Twain

Q3:    What was the name of the patent that Mark Twain described as "the most valuable
A3:    induction motor invention

Q4:    Who was a Nazi propagandist?
A4:    George Sylvester Viereck

Q5:    Who did Tesla occasionally attend dinner parties with?
A5:    Viereck and his wife

-------------------data 136---------------------
context:
Tesla could be harsh at times and openly expressed disgust for overweight people, such as when he fired a secretary because of her weight.:110 He was quick to criticize clothing; on several occasions, Tesla directed a subordinate to go home and change her dress.:33

Q1:    Why did Tesla fire a secretary?
A1:    her weight

-------------------data 137---------------------
context:
Tesla exhibited a pre-atomic understanding of physics in his writings; he disagreed with the theory of atoms being composed of smaller subatomic particles, stating there was no such thing as an electron creating an electric charge (he believed that if electrons existed at all, they were some fourth state of matter or "sub-atom" that could only exist in an experimental vacuum and that they had nothing to do with electricity).:249 Tesla believed that atoms are immutable—they could not change state or be split in any way. He was a believer in the 19th century concept of an all pervasive "ether" that transmitted electrical energy.

Q1:    What was the theory of atoms composed of?
A1:    smaller subatomic particles

Q2:    What was the idea of an all pervasive "ether" that transmitted electrical energy?
A2:    the 19th century

-------------------data 138---------------------
context:
Tesla was generally antagonistic towards theories about the conversion of matter into energy.:247 He was also critical of Einstein's theory of relativity, saying:

Q1:    What theory did Tesla criticize?
A1:    Einstein's theory of relativity

-------------------data 139---------------------
context:
Tesla claimed to have developed his own physical principle regarding matter and energy that he started working on in 1892, and in 1937, at age 81, claimed in a letter to have completed a "dynamic theory of gravity" that "[would] put an end to idle speculations and false conceptions, as that of curved space." He stated that the theory was "worked out in all details" and that he hoped to soon give it to the world. Further elucidation of his theory was never found in his writings.:309

Q1:    What was the name of the theory that Tesla wrote in 1937?
A1:    dynamic theory of gravity

Q2:    What was the name of the theory he wrote in 1937?
A2:    dynamic theory of gravity

Q3:    What was never a formal description of the theory?
A3:    Further elucidation

-------------------data 140---------------------
context:
Tesla, like many of his era, became a proponent of an imposed selective breeding version of eugenics. His opinion stemmed from the belief that humans' "pity" had interfered with the natural "ruthless workings of nature," rather than from conceptions of a "master race" or inherent superiority of one person over another. His advocacy of it was, however, to push it further. In a 1937 interview, he stated:

Q1:    What was Tesla a proponent of?
A1:    selective breeding version of eugenics

Q2:    What belief did Tesla have about humans?
A2:    "pity" had interfered with the natural "ruthless workings of nature,"

Q3:    What was Tesla's opinion of it?
A3:    to push it further

Q4:    What year did Tesla first say that he was a proponent of a selective breeding
A4:    1937

-------------------data 141---------------------
context:
In 1926, Tesla commented on the ills of the social subservience of women and the struggle of women toward gender equality, and indicated that humanity's future would be run by "Queen Bees." He believed that women would become the dominant sex in the future.

Q1:    What was the name of the campaign that Tesla commented on in 1926?
A1:    Queen Bees

Q2:    What did Tesla believe women would become the dominant sex in the future?
A2:    gender equality

-------------------data 142---------------------
context:
Tesla made predictions about the relevant issues of a post-World War I environment in a printed article, "Science and Discovery are the great Forces which will lead to the Consummation of the War" (20 December 1914). Tesla believed that the League of Nations was not a remedy for the times and issues.[citation needed]

Q1:    What was the name of the article that published predictions for the future conflicts?
A1:    Science and Discovery

Q2:    What did Tesla believe was not a remedy for?
A2:    times and issues

-------------------data 143---------------------
context:
Tesla was raised an Orthodox Christian. Later in his life, he did not consider himself to be a "believer in the orthodox sense," and opposed religious fanaticism. Despite this, he had a profound respect for both Buddhism and Christianity.

Q1:    What was Tesla's profession?
A1:    an Orthodox Christian

Q2:    What was Tesla's belief?
A2:    an Orthodox Christian

Q3:    What did Tesla respect for?
A3:    Buddhism and Christianity

-------------------data 144---------------------
context:
However, his religious views remain uncertain due to other statements that he made. For example, in his article, "A Machine to End War", published in 1937, Tesla stated:

Q1:    What was the name of Tesla's article published in 1937?
A1:    A Machine to End War

Q2:    What year was the book published?
A2:    1937

-------------------data 145---------------------
context:
Tesla wrote a number of books and articles for magazines and journals. Among his books are My Inventions: The Autobiography of Nikola Tesla, compiled and edited by Ben Johnston; The Fantastic Inventions of Nikola Tesla, compiled and edited by David Hatcher Childress; and The Tesla Papers.

Q1:    What was the name of the book written by Ben Johnston?
A1:    My Inventions: The Autobiography of Nikola Tesla

Q2:    Who wrote and edited the book My Inventions: The Autobiography of Nikola Tesla?
A2:    Ben Johnston

-------------------data 146---------------------
context:
Many of Tesla's writings are freely available on the web, including the article "The Problem of Increasing Human Energy," published in The Century Magazine in 1900, and the article "Experiments With Alternate Currents Of High Potential And High Frequency," published in his book Inventions, Researches and Writings of Nikola Tesla.

Q1:    What year was the article published about Tesla's researches and writings?
A1:    1900

-------------------data 147---------------------
context:
Tesla's legacy has endured in books, films, radio, TV, music, live theater, comics and video games. The impact of the technologies invented or envisioned by Tesla is a recurring theme in several types of science fiction.

Q1:    What genre of science fiction is a common theme in science fiction?
A1:    The impact of the technologies invented or envisioned by Tesla

Q2:    What type of science fiction story has a theme that has been recurring in many types of
A2:    The impact of the technologies invented or envisioned by Tesla

-------------------data 148---------------------
context:
On Tesla's 75th birthday in 1931, Time magazine put him on its cover. The cover caption "All the world's his power house" noted his contribution to electrical power generation. He received congratulatory letters from more than 70 pioneers in science and engineering, including Albert Einstein.

Q1:    When did Tesla's 75th birthday happen?
A1:    1931

Q2:    What was the cover caption for "All the world's his power house"?
A2:    his contribution to electrical power generation

Q3:    Who received congratulatory letters from more than 70 pioneers in science and engineering?
A3:    Albert Einstein

-------------------data 149---------------------
context:
Computational complexity theory is a branch of the theory of computation in theoretical computer science that focuses on classifying computational problems according to their inherent difficulty, and relating those classes to each other. A computational problem is understood to be a task that is in principle amenable to being solved by a computer, which is equivalent to stating that the problem may be solved by mechanical application of mathematical steps, such as an algorithm.

Q1:    What is the theory of computation in theoretical computer science?
A1:    Computational complexity theory

Q2:    What is the term for a task that is not necessarily solved by a computer?
A2:    computational problem

-------------------data 150---------------------
context:
A problem is regarded as inherently difficult if its solution requires significant resources, whatever the algorithm used. The theory formalizes this intuition, by introducing mathematical models of computation to study these problems and quantifying the amount of resources needed to solve them, such as time and storage. Other complexity measures are also used, such as the amount of communication (used in communication complexity), the number of gates in a circuit (used in circuit complexity) and the number of processors (used in parallel computing). One of the roles of computational complexity theory is to determine the practical limits on what computers can and cannot do.

Q1:    What is a problem considered difficult if its solution requires significant resources?
A1:    inherently difficult

Q2:    What are two things that can be learned about complex problems in the theory?
A2:    time and storage

Q3:    What is one of the other complex measures used?
A3:    number of gates in a circuit (used in communication complexity) and the number of processors

Q4:    What is one of the roles of computational complexity theory?
A4:    determine the practical limits on what computers can and cannot do

-------------------data 151---------------------
context:
Closely related fields in theoretical computer science are analysis of algorithms and computability theory. A key distinction between analysis of algorithms and computational complexity theory is that the former is devoted to analyzing the amount of resources needed by a particular algorithm to solve a problem, whereas the latter asks a more general question about all possible algorithms that could be used to solve the same problem. More precisely, it tries to classify problems that can or cannot be solved with appropriately restricted resources. In turn, imposing restrictions on the available resources is what distinguishes computational complexity from computability theory: the latter theory asks what kind of problems can, in principle, be solved algorithmically.

Q1:    What are two fields in theoretical computer science?
A1:    analysis of algorithms and computability theory

Q2:    What is the second of the two fields in theoretical computer science?
A2:    analysis of algorithms and computability theory

Q3:    What does the latter question about?
A3:    all possible algorithms that could be used to solve the same problem

Q4:    What is the latter theory attempting to classify?
A4:    restricted resources

-------------------data 152---------------------
context:
A computational problem can be viewed as an infinite collection of instances together with a solution for every instance. The input string for a computational problem is referred to as a problem instance, and should not be confused with the problem itself. In computational complexity theory, a problem refers to the abstract question to be solved. In contrast, an instance of this problem is a rather concrete utterance, which can serve as the input for a decision problem. For example, consider the problem of primality testing. The instance is a number (e.g. 15) and the solution is "yes" if the number is prime and "no" otherwise (in this case "no"). Stated another way, the instance is a particular input to the problem, and the solution is the output corresponding to the given input.

Q1:    What is a problem instance called?
A1:    The input string

Q2:    What is the input string for a computational problem called?
A2:    a problem instance

Q3:    What is the output string for a computational problem called?
A3:    a problem instance

Q4:    What is the output for a problem problem?
A4:    a problem instance

Q5:    What is the example given for a problem in computational theory?
A5:    a rather concrete utterance

Q6:    What is the answer to the question in a computational problem?
A6:    input string

Q7:    What is the output for a computational problem?
A7:    a problem instance

-------------------data 153---------------------
context:
To further highlight the difference between a problem and an instance, consider the following instance of the decision version of the traveling salesman problem: Is there a route of at most 2000 kilometres passing through all of Germany's 15 largest cities? The quantitative answer to this particular problem instance is of little use for solving other instances of the problem, such as asking for a round trip through all sites in Milan whose total length is at most 10 km. For this reason, complexity theory addresses computational problems and not particular problem instances.

Q1:    How many kilometres does the route take through all of Germany's 15 biggest cities?
A1:    2000

Q2:    What is the length of a round trip through Milan?
A2:    10 km

Q3:    What does complexity theory address?
A3:    computational problems and not particular problem instances

-------------------data 154---------------------
context:
When considering computational problems, a problem instance is a string over an alphabet. Usually, the alphabet is taken to be the binary alphabet (i.e., the set {0,1}), and thus the strings are bitstrings. As in a real-world computer, mathematical objects other than bitstrings must be suitably encoded. For example, integers can be represented in binary notation, and graphs can be encoded directly via their adjacency matrices, or by encoding their adjacency lists in binary.

Q1:    What is the name of the problem instance?
A1:    a string over an alphabet

Q2:    What is the binary alphabet?
A2:    the set 0,1

Q3:    What is required for mathematical objects other than bitstrings to encode?
A3:    a real-world computer

Q4:    What can be represented in binary notation?
A4:    integers

-------------------data 155---------------------
context:
Decision problems are one of the central objects of study in computational complexity theory. A decision problem is a special type of computational problem whose answer is either yes or no, or alternately either 1 or 0. A decision problem can be viewed as a formal language, where the members of the language are instances whose output is yes, and the non-members are those instances whose output is no. The objective is to decide, with the aid of an algorithm, whether a given input string is a member of the formal language under consideration. If the algorithm deciding this problem returns the answer yes, the algorithm is said to accept the input string, otherwise it is said to reject the input.

Q1:    What type of problem is a special type of computational problem?
A1:    decision

Q2:    What is a special type of problem that can be viewed as a formal language?
A2:    A decision problem

Q3:    What type of language can be used to describe a decision problem?
A3:    formal

Q4:    What is the purpose of the algorithm?
A4:    to decide, with the aid of an algorithm, whether a given input string is a

-------------------data 156---------------------
context:
An example of a decision problem is the following. The input is an arbitrary graph. The problem consists in deciding whether the given graph is connected, or not. The formal language associated with this decision problem is then the set of all connected graphs—of course, to obtain a precise definition of this language, one has to decide how graphs are encoded as binary strings.

Q1:    What is the input form of a decision problem?
A1:    an arbitrary graph

Q2:    What is the input form of a decision problem?
A2:    an arbitrary graph

Q3:    What is the form of the decision problem?
A3:    an arbitrary graph

Q4:    What is the form of the information associated with the decision problem?
A4:    arbitrary graph

-------------------data 157---------------------
context:
A function problem is a computational problem where a single output (of a total function) is expected for every input, but the output is more complex than that of a decision problem, that is, it isn't just yes or no. Notable examples include the traveling salesman problem and the integer factorization problem.

Q1:    What is a problem with the output?
A1:    a computational problem

-------------------data 158---------------------
context:
It is tempting to think that the notion of function problems is much richer than the notion of decision problems. However, this is not really the case, since function problems can be recast as decision problems. For example, the multiplication of two integers can be expressed as the set of triples (a, b, c) such that the relation a × b = c holds. Deciding whether a given triple is a member of this set corresponds to solving the problem of multiplying two numbers.

Q1:    What is a question that can be considered as a decision problem?
A1:    function problems

Q2:    What is not the case with function problems?
A2:    can be recast as decision problems

Q3:    What is a function problem?
A3:    decision problems

Q4:    What is the answer to the question of a given triple?
A4:    solving the problem of multiplying two numbers

-------------------data 159---------------------
context:
To measure the difficulty of solving a computational problem, one may wish to see how much time the best algorithm requires to solve the problem. However, the running time may, in general, depend on the instance. In particular, larger instances will require more time to solve. Thus the time required to solve a problem (or the space required, or any measure of complexity) is calculated as a function of the size of the instance. This is usually taken to be the size of the input in bits. Complexity theory is interested in how algorithms scale with an increase in the input size. For instance, in the problem of finding whether a graph is connected, how much more time does it take to solve a problem for a graph with 2n vertices compared to the time taken for a graph with n vertices?

Q1:    What is the average time spent to solve a computational problem?
A1:    2n vertices

Q2:    What is the duration of the running time for a problem?
A2:    2n vertices

Q3:    What is the term for a measurement of complexity?
A3:    the space required

Q4:    What is calculated as a function of the size of the instance?
A4:    the time required to solve a problem (or the space required, or any measure of complexity

Q5:    What is the size of the input in bits?
A5:    usually taken to be

Q6:    What is the value of the input?
A6:    the size of the input in bits

Q7:    What is the average time spent to solve a problem for a graph with 2n
A7:    2n vertices

-------------------data 160---------------------
context:
If the input size is n, the time taken can be expressed as a function of n. Since the time taken on different inputs of the same size can be different, the worst-case time complexity T(n) is defined to be the maximum time taken over all inputs of size n. If T(n) is a polynomial in n, then the algorithm is said to be a polynomial time algorithm. Cobham's thesis says that a problem can be solved with a feasible amount of resources if it admits a polynomial time algorithm.

Q1:    What is the maximum time taken over inputs of size n?
A1:    T(n)

Q2:    What is the maximum time taken over all inputs of size n?
A2:    T(n)

Q3:    What is the best-case time complexity of an algorithm?
A3:    T(n)

Q4:    What is the best-case scenario for a polynomial time algorithm?
A4:    T(n) is defined to be the maximum time taken over all inputs of size

-------------------data 161---------------------
context:
A Turing machine is a mathematical model of a general computing machine. It is a theoretical device that manipulates symbols contained on a strip of tape. Turing machines are not intended as a practical computing technology, but rather as a thought experiment representing a computing machine—anything from an advanced supercomputer to a mathematician with a pencil and paper. It is believed that if a problem can be solved by an algorithm, there exists a Turing machine that solves the problem. Indeed, this is the statement of the Church–Turing thesis. Furthermore, it is known that everything that can be computed on other models of computation known to us today, such as a RAM machine, Conway's Game of Life, cellular automata or any programming language can be computed on a Turing machine. Since Turing machines are easy to analyze mathematically, and are believed to be as powerful as any other model of computation, the Turing machine is the most commonly used model in complexity theory.

Q1:    What is a Turing machine?
A1:    a mathematical model of a general computing machine

Q2:    What is a theoretical device that manipulates symbols contained on a strip of tape?
A2:    A Turing machine

Q3:    What is a thought experiment for a Turing machine?
A3:    a mathematical model of a general computing machine

Q4:    What is the name of the mathematical model for a Turing machine?
A4:    general computing machine

Q5:    What is the statement of the Church-Turing thesis?
A5:    if a problem can be solved by an algorithm, there exists a Turing machine

Q6:    What is the most commonly used model in complexity theory?
A6:    Turing machine

Q7:    What is the most commonly used model in complexity theory?
A7:    Turing machine

-------------------data 162---------------------
context:
A deterministic Turing machine is the most basic Turing machine, which uses a fixed set of rules to determine its future actions. A probabilistic Turing machine is a deterministic Turing machine with an extra supply of random bits. The ability to make probabilistic decisions often helps algorithms solve problems more efficiently. Algorithms that use random bits are called randomized algorithms. A non-deterministic Turing machine is a deterministic Turing machine with an added feature of non-determinism, which allows a Turing machine to have multiple possible future actions from a given state. One way to view non-determinism is that the Turing machine branches into many possible computational paths at each step, and if it solves the problem in any of these branches, it is said to have solved the problem. Clearly, this model is not meant to be a physically realizable model, it is just a theoretically interesting abstract machine that gives rise to particularly interesting complexity classes. For examples, see non-deterministic algorithm.

Q1:    What is the most basic Turing machine?
A1:    A deterministic Turing machine

Q2:    What is a deterministic Turing machine with an extra supply of?
A2:    random bits

Q3:    What is a deterministic Turing machine with an added feature of non-determinis
A3:    non-determinism

Q4:    What are deterministic Turing machines called?
A4:    random bits

Q5:    What is a deterministic Turing machine with an added feature of?
A5:    non-determinism

Q6:    What is a deterministic Turing machine with an added feature of non-determinis
A6:    non-determinism

Q7:    What is a deterministic Turing machine with an added feature of non-determinis
A7:    non-determinism

Q8:    What is a deterministic Turing machine with an added feature of non-determinis
A8:    non-determinism

-------------------data 163---------------------
context:
Many types of Turing machines are used to define complexity classes, such as deterministic Turing machines, probabilistic Turing machines, non-deterministic Turing machines, quantum Turing machines, symmetric Turing machines and alternating Turing machines. They are all equally powerful in principle, but when resources (such as time or space) are bounded, some of these may be more powerful than others.

Q1:    What are some types of Turing machines used to define?
A1:    complexity classes

Q2:    What are some of the power levels of Turing machines?
A2:    time or space

-------------------data 164---------------------
context:
Many machine models different from the standard multi-tape Turing machines have been proposed in the literature, for example random access machines. Perhaps surprisingly, each of these models can be converted to another without providing any extra computational power. The time and memory consumption of these alternate models may vary. What all these models have in common is that the machines operate deterministically.

Q1:    What are some random access machines used in Turing machines?
A1:    multi-tape

Q2:    What is one possible advantage of a Turing machine?
A2:    computational power

Q3:    What is one of the reasons why many machines operate deterministically?
A3:    The time and memory consumption

Q4:    What does a machine operate deterministically?
A4:    The time and memory consumption

-------------------data 165---------------------
context:
However, some computational problems are easier to analyze in terms of more unusual resources. For example, a non-deterministic Turing machine is a computational model that is allowed to branch out to check many different possibilities at once. The non-deterministic Turing machine has very little to do with how we physically want to compute algorithms, but its branching exactly captures many of the mathematical models we want to analyze, so that non-deterministic time is a very important resource in analyzing computational problems.

Q1:    What is one way to analyze computational problems?
A1:    non-deterministic time

Q2:    What is a computational model that can be used to check multiple possibilities?
A2:    non-deterministic Turing machine

Q3:    What does the non-deterministic Turing machine capture?
A3:    many of the mathematical models we want to analyze

-------------------data 166---------------------
context:
For a precise definition of what it means to solve a problem using a given amount of time and space, a computational model such as the deterministic Turing machine is used. The time required by a deterministic Turing machine M on input x is the total number of state transitions, or steps, the machine makes before it halts and outputs the answer ("yes" or "no"). A Turing machine M is said to operate within time f(n), if the time required by M on each input of length n is at most f(n). A decision problem A can be solved in time f(n) if there exists a Turing machine operating in time f(n) that solves the problem. Since complexity theory is interested in classifying problems based on their difficulty, one defines sets of problems based on some criteria. For instance, the set of problems solvable within time f(n) on a deterministic Turing machine is then denoted by DTIME(f(n)).

Q1:    What is the total number of state transitions made before the machine halts and outputs
A1:    "yes" or "no"

Q2:    What is the total number of state transitions or steps the machine uses before it halts
A2:    input x

Q3:    What is the maximum time required by M on each input of length n?
A3:    f(n

Q4:    What is the name of the machine that can be solved in time f(n)?
A4:    deterministic Turing machine

Q5:    What type of theory is interested in classifying problems based on?
A5:    complexity theory

Q6:    What is the number of problems solvable within time f(n) on a
A6:    deterministic Turing machine

-------------------data 167---------------------
context:
Analogous definitions can be made for space requirements. Although time and space are the most well-known complexity resources, any complexity measure can be viewed as a computational resource. Complexity measures are very generally defined by the Blum complexity axioms. Other complexity measures used in complexity theory include communication complexity, circuit complexity, and decision tree complexity.

Q1:    What are the most well-known complex resources?
A1:    time and space

Q2:    What is a complexity measure?
A2:    Blum complexity axioms

Q3:    What is a complexity measure defined by?
A3:    Blum complexity axioms

Q4:    What are some other complexity measures used in complexity theory?
A4:    communication complexity, circuit complexity, and decision tree complexity

-------------------data 168---------------------
context:
The best, worst and average case complexity refer to three different ways of measuring the time complexity (or any other complexity measure) of different inputs of the same size. Since some inputs of size n may be faster to solve than others, we define the following complexities:

Q1:    How many ways of measuring time complexity are there to measure?
A1:    three

Q2:    What is one way to measure the time complexity?
A2:    different inputs of the same size

-------------------data 169---------------------
context:
For example, consider the deterministic sorting algorithm quicksort. This solves the problem of sorting a list of integers that is given as the input. The worst-case is when the input is sorted or sorted in reverse order, and the algorithm takes time O(n2) for this case. If we assume that all possible permutations of the input list are equally likely, the average time taken for sorting is O(n log n). The best case occurs when each pivoting divides the list in half, also needing O(n log n) time.

Q1:    What is the best case for sorting an integer?
A1:    when each pivoting divides the list in half, also needing O(n log

Q2:    What is the best case for sorting a list of integers?
A2:    when each pivoting divides the list in half, also needing O(n log

Q3:    What is the best case for sorting a list of integers?
A3:    when each pivoting divides the list in half, also needing O(n log

Q4:    What is the average time taken for sorting an input list?
A4:    O(n log n)

Q5:    What is the best case for each pivoting divides the list in half?
A5:    needing O(n log n) time

-------------------data 170---------------------
context:
To classify the computation time (or similar resources, such as space consumption), one is interested in proving upper and lower bounds on the minimum amount of time required by the most efficient algorithm solving a given problem. The complexity of an algorithm is usually taken to be its worst-case complexity, unless specified otherwise. Analyzing a particular algorithm falls under the field of analysis of algorithms. To show an upper bound T(n) on the time complexity of a problem, one needs to show only that there is a particular algorithm with running time at most T(n). However, proving lower bounds is much more difficult, since lower bounds make a statement about all possible algorithms that solve a given problem. The phrase "all possible algorithms" includes not just the algorithms known today, but any algorithm that might be discovered in the future. To show a lower bound of T(n) for a problem requires showing that no algorithm can have time complexity lower than T(n).

Q1:    What is an example of a resource that can be used to classify the computation time?
A1:    space consumption

Q2:    What is the complexity of an algorithm?
A2:    its worst-case complexity

Q3:    What is the field of analysis of algorithms?
A3:    Analyzing a particular algorithm

Q4:    What is the only way to show an upper bound T(n) on a problem?
A4:    running time

Q5:    What is the term for lower bounds?
A5:    all possible algorithms

Q6:    What does the phrase "all possible algorithms" include?
A6:    not just the algorithms known today, but any algorithm that might be discovered in the future

Q7:    What is the minimum amount of time required to show an upper bound of a problem?
A7:    T(n)

-------------------data 171---------------------
context:
Upper and lower bounds are usually stated using the big O notation, which hides constant factors and smaller terms. This makes the bounds independent of the specific details of the computational model used. For instance, if T(n) = 7n2 + 15n + 40, in big O notation one would write T(n) = O(n2).

Q1:    What hides constant factors and smaller terms in upper and lower bounds?
A1:    big O notation

Q2:    What is the name of the model that shows the upper and lower bounds?
A2:    big O notation

Q3:    What is the value of the upper and lower bounds in big O notation?
A3:    T(n) = O(n2)

-------------------data 172---------------------
context:
Of course, some complexity classes have complicated definitions that do not fit into this framework. Thus, a typical complexity class has a definition like the following:

Q1:    What type of definition does a complexity class have?
A1:    typical complexity class

Q2:    What type of definition does a complexity class have?
A2:    typical complexity class

-------------------data 173---------------------
context:
But bounding the computation time above by some concrete function f(n) often yields complexity classes that depend on the chosen machine model. For instance, the language {xx | x is any binary string} can be solved in linear time on a multi-tape Turing machine, but necessarily requires quadratic time in the model of single-tape Turing machines. If we allow polynomial variations in running time, Cobham-Edmonds thesis states that "the time complexities in any two reasonable and general models of computation are polynomially related" (Goldreich 2008, Chapter 1.2). This forms the basis for the complexity class P, which is the set of decision problems solvable by a deterministic Turing machine within polynomial time. The corresponding set of function problems is FP.

Q1:    What is the result of bounding the computation time above?
A1:    by some concrete function f(n) often yields complexity classes that depend on the chosen

Q2:    What is the name of the binary string that can be solved in linear time on a multi
A2:    xx | x

Q3:    What is the set of decision problems solvable by a deterministic Turing machine
A3:    complexity class P

Q4:    What is the set of decision problems solvable by a deterministic Turing machine
A4:    complexity class P

Q5:    What is the set of decision problems for a Turing machine?
A5:    complexity class P

-------------------data 174---------------------
context:
Many important complexity classes can be defined by bounding the time or space used by the algorithm. Some important complexity classes of decision problems defined in this manner are the following:

Q1:    What can be defined by a complex complex class?
A1:    bounding the time or space used by the algorithm

Q2:    What are some important complex classes of decision problems?
A2:    the following:

-------------------data 175---------------------
context:
Other important complexity classes include BPP, ZPP and RP, which are defined using probabilistic Turing machines; AC and NC, which are defined using Boolean circuits; and BQP and QMA, which are defined using quantum Turing machines. #P is an important complexity class of counting problems (not decision problems). Classes like IP and AM are defined using Interactive proof systems. ALL is the class of all decision problems.

Q1:    What is the name of the complex class of problems?
A1:    #P

Q2:    What are the two types of proof systems?
A2:    IP and AM

Q3:    What is the class of all decision problems?
A3:    ALL

-------------------data 176---------------------
context:
For the complexity classes defined in this way, it is desirable to prove that relaxing the requirements on (say) computation time indeed defines a bigger set of problems. In particular, although DTIME(n) is contained in DTIME(n2), it would be interesting to know if the inclusion is strict. For time and space requirements, the answer to such questions is given by the time and space hierarchy theorems respectively. They are called hierarchy theorems because they induce a proper hierarchy on the classes defined by constraining the respective resources. Thus there are pairs of complexity classes such that one is properly included in the other. Having deduced such proper set inclusions, we can proceed to make quantitative statements about how much more additional time or space is needed in order to increase the number of problems that can be solved.

Q1:    What is a requirement for complex classes defined in this way?
A1:    relaxation the requirements on (say) computation time

Q2:    What is DTIME(n2) contained in?
A2:    strict

Q3:    What are the two types of questions given?
A3:    time and space hierarchy theorems

Q4:    What are the classes defined by constraining resources called?
A4:    hierarchy theorems

Q5:    What is one of the types of complexity classes that are not included in the other?
A5:    pairs of

Q6:    What is needed to increase the number of problems that can be solved?
A6:    additional time or space

-------------------data 177---------------------
context:
The time and space hierarchy theorems form the basis for most separation results of complexity classes. For instance, the time hierarchy theorem tells us that P is strictly contained in EXPTIME, and the space hierarchy theorem tells us that L is strictly contained in PSPACE.

Q1:    What are theorems that form the basis for most separation results of?
A1:    complexity classes

Q2:    What is strictly contained in EXPTIME?
A2:    P

-------------------data 178---------------------
context:
Many complexity classes are defined using the concept of a reduction. A reduction is a transformation of one problem into another problem. It captures the informal notion of a problem being at least as difficult as another problem. For instance, if a problem X can be solved using an algorithm for Y, X is no more difficult than Y, and we say that X reduces to Y. There are many different types of reductions, based on the method of reduction, such as Cook reductions, Karp reductions and Levin reductions, and the bound on the complexity of reductions, such as polynomial-time reductions or log-space reductions.

Q1:    What is a reduction a transformation of a problem into another?
A1:    one

Q2:    What is a reduction?
A2:    transformation of one problem into another problem

Q3:    What is the informal concept of a problem?
A3:    at least as difficult as another problem

Q4:    What is a reduction based on?
A4:    the method of reduction

-------------------data 179---------------------
context:
The most commonly used reduction is a polynomial-time reduction. This means that the reduction process takes polynomial time. For example, the problem of squaring an integer can be reduced to the problem of multiplying two integers. This means an algorithm for multiplying two integers can be used to square an integer. Indeed, this can be done by giving the same input to both inputs of the multiplication algorithm. Thus we see that squaring is not more difficult than multiplication, since squaring can be reduced to multiplication.

Q1:    What is the most commonly used reduction?
A1:    a polynomial-time reduction

Q2:    What is the most commonly used reduction?
A2:    a polynomial-time reduction

Q3:    What is the problem of squaring an integer?
A3:    multiplying two integers

Q4:    What is the name of the algorithm used to square an integer?
A4:    multiplying two

Q5:    How can an algorithm be used to square an integer?
A5:    by giving the same input to both inputs of the multiplication algorithm

Q6:    What is a common problem with squaring?
A6:    multiplication

-------------------data 180---------------------
context:
This motivates the concept of a problem being hard for a complexity class. A problem X is hard for a class of problems C if every problem in C can be reduced to X. Thus no problem in C is harder than X, since an algorithm for X allows us to solve any problem in C. Of course, the notion of hard problems depends on the type of reduction being used. For complexity classes larger than P, polynomial-time reductions are commonly used. In particular, the set of problems that are hard for NP is the set of NP-hard problems.

Q1:    What is hard for a complexity class?
A1:    problem X

Q2:    What is hard for a class of problems C?
A2:    X

Q3:    What is one common problem that is hard for complexity classes?
A3:    NP

Q4:    What is the set of hard problems for NP?
A4:    complex classes larger than P

-------------------data 181---------------------
context:
If a problem X is in C and hard for C, then X is said to be complete for C. This means that X is the hardest problem in C. (Since many problems could be equally hard, one might say that X is one of the hardest problems in C.) Thus the class of NP-complete problems contains the most difficult problems in NP, in the sense that they are the ones most likely not to be in P. Because the problem P = NP is not solved, being able to reduce a known NP-complete problem, Π2, to another problem, Π1, would indicate that there is no known polynomial-time solution for Π1. This is because a polynomial-time solution to Π1 would yield a polynomial-time solution to Π2. Similarly, because all NP problems can be reduced to the set, finding an NP-complete problem that can be solved in polynomial time would mean that P = NP.

Q1:    What is the hardest problem in C?
A1:    X

Q2:    What is the most difficult problem in NP?
A2:    X

Q3:    What would be the only polynomial-time solution to 2?
A3:    1

Q4:    What is the answer to the polynomial-time solution?
A4:    1

-------------------data 182---------------------
context:
The complexity class P is often seen as a mathematical abstraction modeling those computational tasks that admit an efficient algorithm. This hypothesis is called the Cobham–Edmonds thesis. The complexity class NP, on the other hand, contains many problems that people would like to solve efficiently, but for which no efficient algorithm is known, such as the Boolean satisfiability problem, the Hamiltonian path problem and the vertex cover problem. Since deterministic Turing machines are special non-deterministic Turing machines, it is easily observed that each problem in P is also member of the class NP.

Q1:    What is the complexity class P often seen as?
A1:    a mathematical abstraction modeling those computational tasks that admit an efficient algorithm

Q2:    What is the Cobham-Edmonds thesis?
A2:    complexity class P

Q3:    What is the Boolean satisfiability problem?
A3:    Hamiltonian path problem and the vertex cover problem

Q4:    What is the classification of deterministic Turing machines?
A4:    special non-deterministic

-------------------data 183---------------------
context:
The question of whether P equals NP is one of the most important open questions in theoretical computer science because of the wide implications of a solution. If the answer is yes, many important problems can be shown to have more efficient solutions. These include various types of integer programming problems in operations research, many problems in logistics, protein structure prediction in biology, and the ability to find formal proofs of pure mathematics theorems. The P versus NP problem is one of the Millennium Prize Problems proposed by the Clay Mathematics Institute. There is a US$1,000,000 prize for resolving the problem.

Q1:    Why is the question of whether P equals NP important in theoretical computer science?
A1:    the wide implications of a solution

Q2:    What is one of the most important questions in theoretical computer science?
A2:    whether P equals NP

Q3:    What is one of the Millennium Prize Problems by the Clay Mathematics Institute?
A3:    P versus NP

Q4:    What is the name of the problem that the Clay Mathematics Institute proposes?
A4:    P versus NP

Q5:    How much money is needed for solving the P versus NP problem?
A5:    US$1,000,000

-------------------data 184---------------------
context:
It was shown by Ladner that if P ≠ NP then there exist problems in NP that are neither in P nor NP-complete. Such problems are called NP-intermediate problems. The graph isomorphism problem, the discrete logarithm problem and the integer factorization problem are examples of problems believed to be NP-intermediate. They are some of the very few NP problems not known to be in P or to be NP-complete.

Q1:    What is one of the very few NP problems not known to be in P or NP
A1:    NP-complete

Q2:    What are some of the very few NP problems not known to be in P or NP
A2:    NP-complete

Q3:    What are some of the very few NP problems not known to be in P or NP
A3:    NP-complete

Q4:    What are some of the very few NP problems not known to be in P or NP
A4:    NP-complete

-------------------data 185---------------------
context:
The graph isomorphism problem is the computational problem of determining whether two finite graphs are isomorphic. An important unsolved problem in complexity theory is whether the graph isomorphism problem is in P, NP-complete, or NP-intermediate. The answer is not known, but it is believed that the problem is at least not NP-complete. If graph isomorphism is NP-complete, the polynomial time hierarchy collapses to its second level. Since it is widely believed that the polynomial hierarchy does not collapse to any finite level, it is believed that graph isomorphism is not NP-complete. The best algorithm for this problem, due to Laszlo Babai and Eugene Luks has run time 2O(√(n log(n))) for graphs with n vertices.

Q1:    What is the computational problem for determining whether two finite graphs are isomorphic
A1:    graph isomorphism problem

Q2:    What is the answer to the question?
A2:    The answer is not known, but it is believed that the problem is at least not NP

Q3:    What is the answer to the question?
A3:    The answer is not known, but it is believed that the problem is at least not NP

Q4:    What is the polynomial time hierarchy believed to have collapsed to?
A4:    second level

Q5:    What is the polynomial hierarchy believed to have collapsed to?
A5:    second level

Q6:    What is the best algorithm for this problem?
A6:    Laszlo Babai and Eugene Luks

-------------------data 186---------------------
context:
The integer factorization problem is the computational problem of determining the prime factorization of a given integer. Phrased as a decision problem, it is the problem of deciding whether the input has a factor less than k. No efficient integer factorization algorithm is known, and this fact forms the basis of several modern cryptographic systems, such as the RSA algorithm. The integer factorization problem is in NP and in co-NP (and even in UP and co-UP). If the problem is NP-complete, the polynomial time hierarchy will collapse to its first level (i.e., NP will equal co-NP). The best known algorithm for integer factorization is the general number field sieve, which takes time O(e(64/9)1/3(n.log 2)1/3(log (n.log 2))2/3) to factor an n-bit integer. However, the best known quantum algorithm for this problem, Shor's algorithm, does run in polynomial time. Unfortunately, this fact doesn't say much about where the problem lies with respect to non-quantum complexity classes.

Q1:    What is the computational problem for determining the prime factorization of a given integer?
A1:    The integer factorization problem

Q2:    What is the problem of determining whether the input has less than k?
A2:    Phrased

Q3:    What is the name of the algorithm that solves the problem with integer factorization?
A3:    Shor

Q4:    What is the problem in NP and co-NP?
A4:    integer factorization problem

Q5:    What is the first level of the problem if the integer factorization problem is NP-
A5:    co-NP

Q6:    What is the best known algorithm for integer factorization?
A6:    the general number field sieve

Q7:    What is the best known quantum algorithm for this problem?
A7:    Shor's algorithm

Q8:    What is the best known quantum algorithm for this problem?
A8:    Shor's algorithm

-------------------data 187---------------------
context:
Many known complexity classes are suspected to be unequal, but this has not been proved. For instance P ⊆ NP ⊆ PP ⊆ PSPACE, but it is possible that P = PSPACE. If P is not equal to NP, then P is not equal to PSPACE either. Since there are many known complexity classes between P and PSPACE, such as RP, BPP, PP, BQP, MA, PH, etc., it is possible that all these complexity classes collapse to one class. Proving that any of these classes are unequal would be a major breakthrough in complexity theory.

Q1:    What is one example of a known complexity class that is unmatched?
A1:    P  NP  PP  PSPACE

Q2:    What is P  NP  PP  PSPACE?
A2:    P is not equal to NP

Q3:    What is P?
A3:    P is not equal to NP

Q4:    What is the potential for all these complex classes to collapse?
A4:    one class

Q5:    What is the potential for all these complex classes to collapse?
A5:    one class

-------------------data 188---------------------
context:
Along the same lines, co-NP is the class containing the complement problems (i.e. problems with the yes/no answers reversed) of NP problems. It is believed that NP is not equal to co-NP; however, it has not yet been proven. It has been shown that if these two complexity classes are not equal then P is not equal to NP.

Q1:    What is the first problem that is related to the NP problem?
A1:    yes/no answers reversed

Q2:    What is the NP class that contains the complement problems?
A2:    co-NP

Q3:    What is not equal to NP?
A3:    P

-------------------data 189---------------------
context:
Similarly, it is not known if L (the set of all problems that can be solved in logarithmic space) is strictly contained in P or equal to P. Again, there are many complexity classes between the two, such as NL and NC, and it is not known if they are distinct or equal classes.

Q1:    What is not known if the complex class is strictly contained in P or equal to P?
A1:    L

-------------------data 190---------------------
context:
Problems that can be solved in theory (e.g., given large but finite time), but which in practice take too long for their solutions to be useful, are known as intractable problems. In complexity theory, problems that lack polynomial-time solutions are considered to be intractable for more than the smallest inputs. In fact, the Cobham–Edmonds thesis states that only those problems that can be solved in polynomial time can be feasibly computed on some computational device. Problems that are known to be intractable in this sense include those that are EXPTIME-hard. If NP is not the same as P, then the NP-complete problems are also intractable in this sense. To see why exponential-time algorithms might be unusable in practice, consider a program that makes 2n operations before halting. For small n, say 100, and assuming for the sake of example that the computer does 1012 operations each second, the program would run for about 4 × 1010 years, which is the same order of magnitude as the age of the universe. Even with a much faster computer, the program would only be useful for very small instances and in that sense the intractability of a problem is somewhat independent of technological progress. Nevertheless, a polynomial time algorithm is not always practical. If its running time is, say, n15, it is unreasonable to consider it efficient and it is still useless except on small instances.

Q1:    What are intractable problems in complexity theory?
A1:    more than the smallest inputs

Q2:    What are in complexity theory considered to be intractable?
A2:    more than the smallest inputs

Q3:    What is the purpose of the Cobham-Edmonds thesis?
A3:    that only those problems that can be solved in polynomial time can be fe

Q4:    What are some problems that are intractable in this sense?
A4:    NP-complete problems

Q5:    What is intractable in the context of complex theory?
A5:    NP-complete problems

Q6:    What is the average value of a program that makes 2n operations before halting?
A6:    100

Q7:    How long would a program run for a small amount of time?
A7:    4  1010 years

Q8:    What is the probability of a problem in a polynomial time algorithm?
A8:    not always practical

Q9:    What is intractable for small instances?
A9:    n

Q10:    What is the average running time for a polynomial algorithm?
A10:    n15

-------------------data 191---------------------
context:
What intractability means in practice is open to debate. Saying that a problem is not in P does not imply that all large cases of the problem are hard or even that most of them are. For example, the decision problem in Presburger arithmetic has been shown not to be in P, yet algorithms have been written that solve the problem in reasonable times in most cases. Similarly, algorithms can solve the NP-complete knapsack problem over a wide range of sizes in less than quadratic time and SAT solvers routinely handle large instances of the NP-complete Boolean satisfiability problem.

Q1:    What is open to debate in practice?
A1:    What intractability means

Q2:    What does the statement that a problem is not in P mean?
A2:    that all large cases of the problem are hard or even that most of them are

Q3:    What has been shown to be the problem in Presburger arithmetic?
A3:    P

Q4:    What is the common problem in arithmetic?
A4:    Presburger arithmetic

-------------------data 192---------------------
context:
Before the actual research explicitly devoted to the complexity of algorithmic problems started off, numerous foundations were laid out by various researchers. Most influential among these was the definition of Turing machines by Alan Turing in 1936, which turned out to be a very robust and flexible simplification of a computer.

Q1:    What was the first complex complex problem uncovered by various researchers?
A1:    algorithmic problems

Q2:    Who defined a Turing machine as a very robust and flexible simplification of a
A2:    Alan Turing

-------------------data 193---------------------
context:
As Fortnow & Homer (2003) point out, the beginning of systematic studies in computational complexity is attributed to the seminal paper "On the Computational Complexity of Algorithms" by Juris Hartmanis and Richard Stearns (1965), which laid out the definitions of time and space complexity and proved the hierarchy theorems. Also, in 1965 Edmonds defined a "good" algorithm as one with running time bounded by a polynomial of the input size.

Q1:    What was the seminal paper on Computational Complexity of Algorithms
A1:    Juris Hartmanis and Richard Stearns

Q2:    What was the name of the algorithm that Edmonds defined in 1965?
A2:    good

-------------------data 194---------------------
context:
Earlier papers studying problems solvable by Turing machines with specific bounded resources include  John Myhill's definition of linear bounded automata (Myhill 1960), Raymond Smullyan's study of rudimentary sets (1961), as well as Hisao Yamada's paper on real-time computations (1962). Somewhat earlier, Boris Trakhtenbrot (1956), a pioneer in the field from the USSR, studied another specific complexity measure. As he remembers:

Q1:    What year did Raymond Smullyan study rudimentary sets?
A1:    1961

Q2:    Who studied another specific complexity measure?
A2:    Boris Trakhtenbrot

Q3:    What did Boris Trakhtenbrot remember?
A3:    complexity measure

-------------------data 195---------------------
context:
Even though some proofs of complexity-theoretic theorems regularly assume some concrete choice of input encoding, one tries to keep the discussion abstract enough to be independent of the choice of encoding. This can be achieved by ensuring that different representations can be transformed into each other efficiently.

Q1:    What does one try to keep the discussion abstract?
A1:    independent of the choice of encoding

Q2:    How can the discussion be structured?
A2:    by ensuring that different representations can be transformed into each other efficiently

-------------------data 196---------------------
context:
In 1967, Manuel Blum developed an axiomatic complexity theory based on his axioms and proved an important result, the so-called, speed-up theorem. The field really began to flourish in 1971 when the US researcher Stephen Cook and, working independently, Leonid Levin in the USSR, proved that there exist practically relevant problems that are NP-complete. In 1972, Richard Karp took this idea a leap forward with his landmark paper, "Reducibility Among Combinatorial Problems", in which he showed that 21 diverse combinatorial and graph theoretical problems, each infamous for its computational intractability, are NP-complete.

Q1:    What was the name of the theory developed by Manuel Blum in 1967?
A1:    axiomatic complexity theory

Q2:    Who worked independently in the USSR?
A2:    Leonid Levin

Q3:    What was the name of the paper that Richard Karp published in 1972?
A3:    Reduce Among Combinatorial Problems

-------------------data 197---------------------
context:
The role of teacher is often formal and ongoing, carried out at a school or other place of formal education. In many countries, a person who wishes to become a teacher must first obtain specified professional qualifications or credentials from a university or college. These professional qualifications may include the study of pedagogy, the science of teaching. Teachers, like other professionals, may have to continue their education after they qualify, a process known as continuing professional development. Teachers may use a lesson plan to facilitate student learning, providing a course of study which is called the curriculum.

Q1:    What is a term for a teacher's role?
A1:    formal and ongoing

Q2:    What type of education is required for a person who wishes to become a teacher?
A2:    formal and ongoing

Q3:    What is the study of pedagogy called?
A3:    science of teaching

Q4:    What is the process of continuing professional development called?
A4:    pedagogy

Q5:    What is the course of study for which teachers can learn more?
A5:    curriculum

-------------------data 198---------------------
context:
A teacher's role may vary among cultures. Teachers may provide instruction in literacy and numeracy, craftsmanship or vocational training, the arts, religion, civics, community roles, or life skills.

Q1:    What is a teacher's role?
A1:    literacy and numeracy, craftsmanship or vocational training

Q2:    What are teachers allowed to teach?
A2:    literacy and numeracy, craftsmanship or vocational training

-------------------data 199---------------------
context:
In some countries, formal education can take place through home schooling. Informal learning may be assisted by a teacher occupying a transient or ongoing role, such as a family member, or by anyone with knowledge or skills in the wider community setting.

Q1:    What can be used in some countries to get formal education?
A1:    home schooling

Q2:    What is an example of an educator who can assist with informal learning?
A2:    a family member

-------------------data 200---------------------
context:
Religious and spiritual teachers, such as gurus, mullahs, rabbis, pastors/youth pastors and lamas, may teach religious texts such as the Quran, Torah or Bible.

Q1:    What are some religious and spiritual teachers called?
A1:    gurus, mullahs, rabbis

-------------------data 201---------------------
context:
Teaching may be carried out informally, within the family, which is called homeschooling, or in the wider community. Formal teaching may be carried out by paid professionals. Such professionals enjoy a status in some societies on a par with physicians, lawyers, engineers, and accountants (Chartered or CPA).

Q1:    What is the term for informal teaching?
A1:    paid professionals

Q2:    Who can teach for formal teaching?
A2:    paid professionals

Q3:    What are Chartered or CPAs?
A3:    physicians, lawyers, engineers, and accountants

-------------------data 202---------------------
context:
A teacher's professional duties may extend beyond formal teaching. Outside of the classroom teachers may accompany students on field trips, supervise study halls, help with the organization of school functions, and serve as supervisors for extracurricular activities. In some education systems, teachers may have responsibility for student discipline.

Q1:    What is a teacher's profession?
A1:    supervisors for extracurricular activities

Q2:    What do teachers do outside of classrooms?
A2:    accompany students on field trips, supervise study halls, help with the organization of school functions,

Q3:    What type of discipline do teachers have in some schools?
A3:    student

-------------------data 203---------------------
context:
There are a variety of bodies designed to instill, preserve and update the knowledge and professional standing of teachers. Around the world many governments operate teacher's colleges, which are generally established to serve and protect the public interest through certifying, governing and enforcing the standards of practice for the teaching profession.

Q1:    What are teachers' colleges usually established to serve?
A1:    public interest

Q2:    What are teacher's colleges generally established to serve and protect the public interest?
A2:    certifying, governing and enforcing the standards of practice for the teaching

-------------------data 204---------------------
context:
The functions of the teacher's colleges may include setting out clear standards of practice, providing for the ongoing education of teachers, investigating complaints involving members, conducting hearings into allegations of professional misconduct and taking appropriate disciplinary action and accrediting teacher education programs. In many situations teachers in publicly funded schools must be members in good standing with the college, and private schools may also require their teachers to be college peoples. In other areas these roles may belong to the State Board of Education, the Superintendent of Public Instruction, the State Education Agency or other governmental bodies. In still other areas Teaching Unions may be responsible for some or all of these duties.

Q1:    What is one of the purposes of a teacher's colleges?
A1:    setting out clear standards of practice

Q2:    What are the duties of a public school teacher's college?
A2:    setting out clear standards of practice

Q3:    What is the name of the state board of education that may be responsible for some or all of
A3:    Teaching Unions

Q4:    What are some of the duties assigned to teachers in public schools?
A4:    setting out clear standards of practice, providing for the ongoing education of teachers, investigating complaints involving

-------------------data 205---------------------
context:
In education, teachers facilitate student learning, often in a school or academy or perhaps in another environment such as outdoors. A teacher who teaches on an individual basis may be described as a tutor.

Q1:    What is one activity that can be used to facilitate student learning?
A1:    outdoors

Q2:    What is a teacher who can be described as a tutor?
A2:    an individual basis

-------------------data 206---------------------
context:
The objective is typically accomplished through either an informal or formal approach to learning, including a course of study and lesson plan that teaches skills, knowledge and/or thinking skills. Different ways to teach are often referred to as pedagogy. When deciding what teaching method to use teachers consider students' background knowledge, environment, and their learning goals as well as standardized curricula as determined by the relevant authority. Many times, teachers assist in learning outside of the classroom by accompanying students on field trips. The increasing use of technology, specifically the rise of the internet over the past decade, has begun to shape the way teachers approach their roles in the classroom.

Q1:    What is the primary purpose of the course of study?
A1:    objective is typically accomplished through either an informal or formal approach to learning, including a course of

Q2:    What is a term for different ways to teach?
A2:    pedagogy

Q3:    What are the standardized curriculas?
A3:    determined by the relevant authority

Q4:    What do teachers assist students in doing while outside the classroom?
A4:    accompanying students on field trips

Q5:    What has changed the way teachers approach their classrooms?
A5:    the rise of the internet

-------------------data 207---------------------
context:
The objective is typically a course of study, lesson plan, or a practical skill. A teacher may follow standardized curricula as determined by the relevant authority. The teacher may interact with students of different ages, from infants to adults, students with different abilities and students with learning disabilities.

Q1:    What is the primary objective of a teacher's work?
A1:    a course of study, lesson plan, or a practical skill

Q2:    What is the purpose of a teacher's curricula?
A2:    a course of study, lesson plan, or a practical skill

Q3:    What type of learning difficulties does the teacher have?
A3:    learning disabilities

-------------------data 208---------------------
context:
Teaching using pedagogy also involve assessing the educational levels of the students on particular skills. Understanding the pedagogy of the students in a classroom involves using differentiated instruction as well as supervision to meet the needs of all students in the classroom. Pedagogy can be thought of in two manners. First, teaching itself can be taught in many different ways, hence, using a pedagogy of teaching styles. Second, the pedagogy of the learners comes into play when a teacher assesses the pedagogic diversity of his/her students and differentiates for the individual students accordingly. For example, an experienced teacher and parent described the place of a teacher in learning as follows: "The real bulk of learning takes place in self-study and problem solving with a lot of feedback around that loop. The function of the teacher is to pressure the lazy, inspire the bored, deflate the cocky, encourage the timid, detect and correct individual flaws, and broaden the viewpoint of all. This function looks like that of a coach using the whole gamut of psychology to get each new class of rookies off the bench and into the game."

Q1:    What is a way of teaching pedagogy?
A1:    differentiated instruction

Q2:    What is a way of understanding the pedagogy of the students in a classroom
A2:    differentiated instruction as well as supervision

Q3:    How can the pedagogy of the students in a classroom be thought of?
A3:    in two manners

Q4:    What type of teaching style can be taught in different ways?
A4:    pedagogy

Q5:    What does the pedagogy of the learners come into play?
A5:    when a teacher assesses the pedagogic diversity of his/her students and

Q6:    What is the term for the real bulk of learning?
A6:    self-study and problem solving

Q7:    What is the function of the teacher?
A7:    pressure the lazy, inspire the bored, deflate the cocky, encourage the timid

Q8:    What is the function of a coach using the whole gamut of psychology?
A8:    to get each new class of rookies off the bench and into the game

-------------------data 209---------------------
context:
Perhaps the most significant difference between primary school and secondary school teaching is the relationship between teachers and children. In primary schools each class has a teacher who stays with them for most of the week and will teach them the whole curriculum. In secondary schools they will be taught by different subject specialists each session during the week and may have ten or more different teachers. The relationship between children and their teachers tends to be closer in the primary school where they act as form tutor, specialist teacher and surrogate parent during the course of the day.

Q1:    What is the most significant difference between primary and secondary school teaching?
A1:    the relationship between teachers and children

Q2:    What is the name of the teacher in primary schools?
A2:    a teacher

Q3:    How many different subject specialists are there in secondary schools?
A3:    ten

Q4:    What type of parent does the relationship between children and children tend to be?
A4:    closer

-------------------data 210---------------------
context:
This is true throughout most of the United States as well. However, alternative approaches for primary education do exist. One of these, sometimes referred to as a "platoon" system, involves placing a group of students together in one class that moves from one specialist to another for every subject. The advantage here is that students learn from teachers who specialize in one subject and who tend to be more knowledgeable in that one area than a teacher who teaches many subjects. Students still derive a strong sense of security by staying with the same group of peers for all classes.

Q1:    What state does this apply to?
A1:    United States

Q2:    What type of system does there exist?
A2:    a "platoon" system

Q3:    What is a "platoon" system called?
A3:    primary education

Q4:    What is the advantage of a teacher's ability to teach students more than a teacher
A4:    students learn from teachers who specialize in one subject and tend to be more knowledgeable in that one area

Q5:    What do students still get a sense of security while in class?
A5:    staying with the same group of peers for all classes

-------------------data 211---------------------
context:
Co-teaching has also become a new trend amongst educational institutions. Co-teaching is defined as two or more teachers working harmoniously to fulfill the needs of every student in the classroom. Co-teaching focuses the student on learning by providing a social networking support that allows them to reach their full cognitive potential. Co-teachers work in sync with one another to create a climate of learning.

Q1:    What has become a trend amongst educational institutions?
A1:    Co-teaching

Q2:    What is a term for two teachers who work harmoniously to fulfill the needs of each student
A2:    Co-teaching

Q3:    What is the purpose of the student's social networking support?
A3:    allows them to reach their full cognitive potential

Q4:    What do co-teaching teachers do in the classroom?
A4:    work harmoniously to fulfill the needs of every student

-------------------data 212---------------------
context:
Throughout the history of education the most common form of school discipline was corporal punishment. While a child was in school, a teacher was expected to act as a substitute parent, with all the normal forms of parental discipline open to them.

Q1:    What is the most common form of school discipline in education?
A1:    corporal punishment

Q2:    What was the most common form of school discipline in education?
A2:    corporal punishment

-------------------data 213---------------------
context:
In past times, corporal punishment (spanking or paddling or caning or strapping or birching the student in order to cause physical pain) was one of the most common forms of school discipline throughout much of the world. Most Western countries, and some others, have now banned it, but it remains lawful in the United States following a US Supreme Court decision in 1977 which held that paddling did not violate the US Constitution.

Q1:    What type of punishment was used in schools in the past?
A1:    corporal punishment

Q2:    What year was the Supreme Court decision over paddling a student?
A2:    1977

-------------------data 214---------------------
context:
30 US states have banned corporal punishment, the others (mostly in the South) have not. It is still used to a significant (though declining) degree in some public schools in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Texas. Private schools in these and most other states may also use it. Corporal punishment in American schools is administered to the seat of the student's trousers or skirt with a specially made wooden paddle. This often used to take place in the classroom or hallway, but nowadays the punishment is usually given privately in the principal's office.

Q1:    How many states have banned corporal punishment?
A1:    30

Q2:    What state has banned corporal punishment?
A2:    30 US states

Q3:    What type of punishment is given to students in private schools in the South?
A3:    Corporal punishment

Q4:    What is used to punish students in schools in the United States?
A4:    Corporal punishment

Q5:    Where is punishment usually given privately?
A5:    principal's office

-------------------data 215---------------------
context:
Official corporal punishment, often by caning, remains commonplace in schools in some Asian, African and Caribbean countries. For details of individual countries see School corporal punishment.

Q1:    What is often used in schools to punish people?
A1:    Official corporal punishment

Q2:    What is often used in schools to punish people?
A2:    Official corporal punishment

-------------------data 216---------------------
context:
Currently detention is one of the most common punishments in schools in the United States, the UK, Ireland, Singapore and other countries. It requires the pupil to remain in school at a given time in the school day (such as lunch, recess or after school); or even to attend school on a non-school day, e.g. "Saturday detention" held at some schools. During detention, students normally have to sit in a classroom and do work, write lines or a punishment essay, or sit quietly.

Q1:    What is a common punishment in schools in the United States, Ireland, and other countries?
A1:    Currently detention

Q2:    What is a punishment for students who are not allowed to attend school?
A2:    Saturday detention

Q3:    Where are students usually held?
A3:    a classroom

Q4:    What type of activity does a student sit in a classroom while in school?
A4:    work

-------------------data 217---------------------
context:
A modern example of school discipline in North America and Western Europe relies upon the idea of an assertive teacher who is prepared to impose their will upon a class. Positive reinforcement is balanced with immediate and fair punishment for misbehavior and firm, clear boundaries define what is appropriate and inappropriate behavior. Teachers are expected to respect their students; sarcasm and attempts to humiliate pupils are seen as falling outside of what constitutes reasonable discipline.[verification needed]

Q1:    What is balanced with immediate and fair punishment for misbehavior?
A1:    Positive reinforcement

Q2:    What is balanced with immediate and fair punishment for misbehavior?
A2:    Positive reinforcement

Q3:    What are teachers expected to respect?
A3:    their students

-------------------data 218---------------------
context:
Whilst this is the consensus viewpoint amongst the majority of academics, some teachers and parents advocate a more assertive and confrontational style of discipline.[citation needed] Such individuals claim that many problems with modern schooling stem from the weakness in school discipline and if teachers exercised firm control over the classroom they would be able to teach more efficiently. This viewpoint is supported by the educational attainment of countries—in East Asia for instance—that combine strict discipline with high standards of education.[citation needed]

Q1:    What type of discipline does the majority of students in East Asia support?
A1:    strict discipline with high standards of education

Q2:    What countries combine strict discipline with high standards of education?
A2:    countries

-------------------data 219---------------------
context:
It's not clear, however that this stereotypical view reflects the reality of East Asian classrooms or that the educational goals in these countries are commensurable with those in Western countries. In Japan, for example, although average attainment on standardized tests may exceed those in Western countries, classroom discipline and behavior is highly problematic. Although, officially, schools have extremely rigid codes of behavior, in practice many teachers find the students unmanageable and do not enforce discipline at all.

Q1:    What is not clear about the educational goals in East Asian countries?
A1:    that the educational goals in these countries are commensurable with those in Western countries

Q2:    What country has a higher attainment on standardized tests than other countries?
A2:    Japan

Q3:    What type of discipline do teachers find students unmanageable?
A3:    rigid codes of behavior

-------------------data 220---------------------
context:
Where school class sizes are typically 40 to 50 students, maintaining order in the classroom can divert the teacher from instruction, leaving little opportunity for concentration and focus on what is being taught. In response, teachers may concentrate their attention on motivated students, ignoring attention-seeking and disruptive students. The result of this is that motivated students, facing demanding university entrance examinations, receive disproportionate resources. Given the emphasis on attainment of university places, administrators and governors may regard this policy as appropriate.

Q1:    What is the average size of the school class in the classroom?
A1:    40 to 50

Q2:    What is one reason why students who are not allowed to attend university entrance exams often get dispro
A2:    disproportionate resources

Q3:    What is the result of this policy?
A3:    motivated students, facing demanding university entrance exams, receive disproportionate resources

Q4:    What is one reason administrators and governors may regard this policy as appropriate?
A4:    attainment of university places

-------------------data 221---------------------
context:
Sudbury model democratic schools claim that popularly based authority can maintain order more effectively than dictatorial authority for governments and schools alike. They also claim that in these schools the preservation of public order is easier and more efficient than anywhere else. Primarily because rules and regulations are made by the community as a whole, thence the school atmosphere is one of persuasion and negotiation, rather than confrontation since there is no one to confront. Sudbury model democratic schools' proponents argue that a school that has good, clear laws, fairly and democratically passed by the entire school community, and a good judicial system for enforcing these laws, is a school in which community discipline prevails, and in which an increasingly sophisticated concept of law and order develops, against other schools today, where rules are arbitrary, authority is absolute, punishment is capricious, and due process of law is unknown.

Q1:    What is a democratic school that promotes public order more effectively than dictatorial authority?
A1:    Sudbury model democratic schools

Q2:    What is the primary reason Sudbury model democratic schools claim that their public order is easier and more
A2:    rules and regulations are made by the community as a whole, thence the school atmosphere is

Q3:    Why is there no one to confront in Sudbury model democratic schools?
A3:    rules and regulations are made by the community as a whole, thence the school atmosphere is

Q4:    What type of discipline does a school have?
A4:    community discipline prevails

-------------------data 222---------------------
context:
Since teachers can affect how students perceive the course materials, it has been found that teachers who showed enthusiasm towards the course materials and students can affect a positive learning experience towards the course materials. On teacher/course evaluations, it was found that teachers who have a positive disposition towards the course content tend to transfer their passion to receptive students. These teachers do not teach by rote but attempt to find new invigoration for the course materials on a daily basis. One of the difficulties in this approach is that teachers may have repeatedly covered a curriculum until they begin to feel bored with the subject which in turn bores the students as well. Students who had enthusiastic teachers tend to rate them higher than teachers who didn't show much enthusiasm for the course materials.

Q1:    What is one of the reasons why teachers can affect learning experiences towards course materials?
A1:    how students perceive the course materials

Q2:    What did teachers who showed a positive attitude towards course materials tend to transfer their passion to?
A2:    receptive students

Q3:    What do teachers do not teach daily?
A3:    rote

Q4:    What is one of the difficulties in this approach?
A4:    that teachers may have repeatedly covered a curriculum until they begin to feel bored with the subject which

Q5:    What do students who had a strong teachers rate higher than those who did not show much enthusiasm
A5:    course materials

-------------------data 223---------------------
context:
Teachers that exhibit enthusiasm can lead to students who are more likely to be engaged, interested, energetic, and curious about learning the subject matter. Recent research has found a correlation between teacher enthusiasm and students' intrinsic motivation to learn and vitality in the classroom. Controlled, experimental studies exploring intrinsic motivation of college students has shown that nonverbal expressions of enthusiasm, such as demonstrative gesturing, dramatic movements which are varied, and emotional facial expressions, result in college students reporting higher levels of intrinsic motivation to learn. Students who experienced a very enthusiastic teacher were more likely to read lecture material outside of the classroom.

Q1:    What are students more likely to be engaged, interested, energetic, and curious about learning the subject
A1:    Teachers that exhibit enthusiasm

Q2:    What is an example of an enthusiasm for teachers in college?
A2:    demonstrative gesturing, dramatic movements which are varied, and emotional facial expressions

Q3:    What are some examples of nonverbal expressions of enthusiasm found in college students?
A3:    demonstrative gesturing, dramatic movements which are varied, and emotional facial expressions

Q4:    What type of teacher did students who had more time to read outside of the classroom learn?
A4:    very enthusiastic
